Barrick Mining Corporation (NYSE:B) Q2 2025 Earnings Conference Call August 11, 2025 11:00 AM ET

Company Participants

Dennis Mark Bristow - President, CEO, Member of International Advisory Board & Director
Graham Patrick Shuttleworth - Senior EVP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Anita Soni - CIBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Daniel Edward Major - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
John Charles Tumazos - John Tumazos Very Independent Research, LLC
Joshua Mark Wolfson - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Martin Pradier - Veritas Investment Research Corporation
Matthew Murphy - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research

Operator

Welcome to Barrick's Results Presentation for the Second Quarter of 2025. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this event is being recorded, and a replay will be available on Barrick's website later today.

I will now turn the call over to Mark Bristow, President and CEO of Barrick. Please go ahead, sir.

Dennis Mark Bristow

Thank you very much, and a very good morning and good afternoon to everyone, and thank you all for joining us today. It's a pleasure to be here, back in London with the weather has been fantastic. And to take you through our second quarter results and share the progress we're making across the business.

Quarter 2 was a productive quarter for Barrick, one where we built on the positive momentum from quarter 1 with stronger production, continued delivery from our Tier 1 assets and solid progress on our growth projects. We continue to perform in a global environment that remains uncertain and at times even uneven, reinforcing the value of a diversified portfolio, disciplined capital allocation and the ability to operate effectively across a range of settings.

Our performance this quarter speaks for itself. The portfolio is delivering. Our balance sheet remains strong, and the second half is shaping up to be even better. We're growing real value through delivery. And while the market hasn't fully recognized this yet, we see it as a clear opportunity.

Before we begin, I'll just remind everyone that today's presentation contains forward-looking statements and financial measures that are subject to a number of risks and assumptions. You'll find the full cautionary in the appendix to this presentation and on our website, which you can read at your leisure.

So starting with group highlights. This was another quarter delivered in line with plan as we continue to leverage the high gold price. Production tracked our guidance and the second half is set to deliver more in line with the guidance we laid out at the start of the year.

Earnings per share more than doubled versus last year with adjusted earnings per share at $0.47, the highest since 2013. We finished the quarter in a net cash position, which allowed us to continue buying back shares while strengthening the balance sheet. In line with our performance dividend policy, the Board has approved a total dividend of $0.15 per share, which includes a $0.05 performance top- up.

Operationally, we are pleased with the progress across the portfolio. Nevada Gold Mines and Pueblo Viejo delivered solid results. Lumwana started to show its true potential. The ramp-up at Goldrush is gaining momentum. And of course, Fourmile keeps growing as we'll discuss later.

On the operational front, this was another quarter with all the arrows pointing in the right direction. Production improved across the portfolio with solid contributions from Nevada Gold Mines, Pueblo Viejo, Kibali and Lumwana. These assets are delivering as planned, setting us up for a stronger second half.

In copper, we saw a clear year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter improvement, production volumes up and unit costs coming down. Attributable gold production increased. And importantly, we continue to see a reduction in all-in sustaining costs. As we discussed at the start of the year, controlling all-in sustaining cost is a key focus area for us, and we are starting to see that discipline coming through in the numbers.

And as we continue to focus our portfolio on long life Tier 1 assets, we completed the sale of our interest in the Donlin Gold project for $1 billion. The sale reflects our disciplined approach to capital allocation and further sharpens our growth pipeline.

Turning to the group's financial results. The combination of improved operating performance and a stronger gold price has delivered the best quarterly adjusted earnings per share in over a decade. We can see a significant improvement in revenue, net earnings and adjusted net earnings, with all 3 tracking upwards compared to quarter 1 and the same quarter last year.

Our attributable EBITDA growth reflects stronger margins and net cash provided by operating activities came in at $1.33 billion, up 35% from last quarter if we exclude interest and income taxes. Free cash flow improved, supported by the gold price and disciplined

capital allocation and as I mentioned, earnings per share increased to $0.47 aligning with the operational and market tailwinds we've discussed.

The trend here is clear. Barrick is on a positive trajectory with even more to come. This slide really highlights the product of our clear and consistent capital return framework. It reflects the disciplined approach we take to allocating capital, ensuring we deliver long- term profitability across our portfolio while building value through the growth of our Tier 1 assets and new projects.

In the first half of the year, we've already returned $753 million to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share buybacks. That is even before the performance dividend we declared which will be paid out in quarter 3, in line with our capital return framework.

And importantly, this is just the first half of the year. All indicators point to an even stronger second half as we continue to deliver on our plans. As we all remind each other every day, in Barrick, health and safety remains a core priority. In this quarter, we saw further improvements across both leading and lagging indicators. Year-to-date, we've achieved a 50% decrease in Lost Time injuries and a 37% decrease in Total Injuries compared to the same period last year.

These gains reflect both stronger frontline engagement and the effectiveness of our critical control verification program, which remains the central to how we manage risk and embed a culture of safety across all our sites.

Let's now turn to operations, and starting with North America. This was the first quarter where Nevada Gold Mines led the group's performance, driven not only by production, but by progress on key growth projects. As we've said before, the complex is transitioning to a predominantly underground operation.

To support development, we initially brought in contractors, but now we're shifting back to self-perform as the capacity of our in- house teams improve. At Goldrush, the ramp-up continues in line with plan, as we move towards nameplate capacity. At the same time, we're super excited by their potential at Fourmile. Barrick's 100% owned asset which is effectively an extension of the Goldrush orebody except better. I'll speak more about that a little later.

At Nevada Gold Mines, we saw increased gold production this quarter, reinforcing the financial strength of the portfolio and helping drive a reduction in all-in sustaining costs. That trend is expected to continue with further cost improvements anticipated by the end of the year.

Production gains were driven largely by higher volumes at Carlin and a reduction in sustaining capital contributed to a lower overall all-in sustaining costs. With all major planned maintenance shutdowns now behind us, we're well positioned to deliver an even stronger second half.

Turning now to Fourmile. This asset is rapidly competing to be the largest and highest grade gold discovery in the industry this century. Since we last showed you this picture, the orebody potential has grown significantly and the grade is also increasing. Let me pause here to reflect for a moment. As you'll recall, our resource as calculated at the end of 2024, and as shown in this table is represented by the red outline of this graphic. It's also that red arrow if somebody is struggling to see the outline.

The black dotted outline in what we expect to convert this year and where all indications point to us doubling the current resource or more. Even more exciting is what's shown by the green outline on the slide, where we are continuing to define significant high-grade orebody extensions.

Fourmile is no doubt emerging as a generational asset, and it's worth putting this in context, and I think Simon did it at our Investor Day. If you look at Goldstrike underground, which was as some of the older folks in this audience will remember, was the maker of the Barrick then.

Goldstrike underground today has produced some 13 million ounces to grade of around 10 grams a tonne. Our current exploration drilling, which is adding to the previous drilling and some of it is shown here in the yellow dots and the black dots, the ones with the grades attached to them, is really highlighting the potential. And it's a long time since we've seen these numbers of intersections at these grades with these thicknesses, and what you have is an extension of Goldrush. And this is now accessing host rock that is brittle.

And we've now got these large brecher bodies that are delivering the grade. It's also important that these large bodies are competent. So when you intersect them for those geologists or mining engineers in the audience, when you drill through them, the core is continuous. And that's not normal in Carlin style orebodies, where you have many brakes in the core when you drill through the orebody.

So, it really does and when you just look at it from -- on a like-for-like, whether you use Goldstrike or Goldrush, the unit underground mining costs are going to be substantially lower. The other part of this is the geometallurgy and we are now well down the road and making intersections across that purple patch that you see on the screen because there's indications that some -- a significant amount of this orebody could well be not double refractory, but single refractory ore. And that's really the focus.

The rest of the -- this year is going to be really to frame the potential of this orebody. We've resisted the temptation of trying to bank it, really to get our head around the size of this orebody and the grade. And then we will start thinking about the next step. And the next natural step is to look to access it from underground.

And we have an opportunity with minimum permitting to be able to do that from the old Bullion Hill site and with that, we believe we will save $500 million to $600 million in drilling as if we were -- compared to if we had to try and drill it out from surface, which are long complicated holes.

So I think what I want to leave you with, and I'm definitely going to be talking about this every quarter going forward is the significance of this resource. And the difference that really should be considered here is that this is a world-class tens of millions of ounces, and it's right in the middle of infrastructure, the Nevada infrastructure. It's not something that you have to go and establish in some complicated place in other parts of the world.

So I'll leave you with that. And again, when you look at the intersections multiple meters, 10, 20, 30, 50 meters at 1 and 2 ounces per tonne rather than grams per tonne, it's very significant.

Let's move on to Latin America and Asia Pacific, which delivered another all-around solid performance this quarter. And it's worth noting that this was a very challenging region when we started out back in 2019. And at Pueblo Viejo, we made further progress on the plant expansion, supporting improved throughput and production quarter-on-quarter. Veladero continued to trend well and at Zaldivar, we secured new mining -- a new mining permit for that operation that now extends the operations life through to at least 2051.

We also continue to advance the permitting process at our El Alto exploration project. And as you'll see shortly, Rich Haddock remains firmly on track a world-class project with exceptional long-term potential. At Pueblo Viejo, we delivered, as I said, a solid improvement in gold production this quarter on increased plant throughput while also driving unit costs lower. The plant modifications completed last quarter are working well, and we expect continued momentum as throughput ramps up further in the second half. You would remember that we went down not in the whole process, but on parts of the process for a period of 35 days in Q1, really focusing on debottlenecking the throughput within the operation.

Construction of the new tailings storage facility is advancing with access roads currently underway and engineering design optimization are going forward. The focus this year has been on debottlenecking the plant and improving throughput, as I've already mentioned. And that progress is clearly reflected in the production trend that you see here.

The little curvation on the third bar on the top is the quarter where we were shut down for a while. That's why the throughput is down on that light blue bar. Throughput continues to rise with steady growth expected through the second half. As a reminder, Q1 was impacted by a planned shutdown, but the overall trend is firmly upward.

We're targeting throughput of 12.8 million tonnes per annum by 2026. Importantly, we continue to optimize the Life of Mine. And while the ramp-up has been gradual, we are managing the blend more aggressively by adding older, higher-grade stockpiles during this phase, which is being built into the plan. And we'll be updating as we go and as we progress our test work on the old stockpiles.

We have a significant reserve base in stockpiles at Pueblo Viejo. As mentioned earlier, the resettlement action plan at PV is progressing well. A key milestone in this quarter was the signing of a formal agreement with the affected communities which was resolved all -- which has resolved all outstanding issues through a commission process mediated by the country's Public Defender and the Catholic Church.

With that in place, families are now moving into the new horizons, housing estate each week, and we're seeing steady progress on this important social commitment. And it's worth noting a lot of these folks living within the effectively the jungle and singular houses of which they didn't own. And this housing estate comes with a pre school, primary school, middle school and ultimately a technical high school and you can walk to school from your home. And that's -- and it's got surge running water, it's a modern state, as you can see.

So and everyone gets a title deed -- so and that's a very important part of developing a value base for people in emerging markets.

Move now to Reko Diq, where we've made further progress in advancing this world-class project. Fluor has now been formally onboarded as the EPCM engineering partner and the design of the tailings storage facility has now been completed. Early works are

underway, and the project remains on track. Reko Diq continues to represent a significant long-term value opportunity for Barrick, a truly world-class asset with meaningful upside.

We've also made good progress on the project financing. And with the bulk of the due diligence complete and documentation, well advanced, we continue to work to complete the financing this year. Six years ago, as I mentioned in Latin America and Asia Pacific, the opportunities were limited. Today, it's a region with significant exploration footprint and meaningful value upside.

Over this period, we've rebuilt our exploration team and have established a portfolio of tangible near- and medium-term opportunities. We've had encouraging results in Argentina with prospects that could extend the Life of Mine at Veladero. In Pakistan, drilling, extending our new discovery at Bukit Pasir is ongoing, and we have already got a new discovery in that mining license. And just to point this new discovery, we've had some drill intersections that are some of the best drill intersections ever drilled in the complex porphyry or the porphyry complex of Reko Diq. And we're talking hundreds of meters of intersections at continuous 0.8% copper.

We're also advancing new targets through drilling in the Dominican Republic and in Peru and further strengthening our future growth pipeline in the region.

Turning now to Africa and the Middle East. This quarter focused on further unlocking the value potential across the region, as 1 of our main cash generators of the group. We saw a solid performance across the portfolio with encouraging improvements at Kibali which I'll speak to in more detail shortly.

In Mali, we continue to manage the situation in a measured and constructive manner. We are continuing with arbitration and we are committed to finding a path forward for the benefit of all stakeholders. For those of you tracking updates closely, I encourage you to visit the micro site we recently added to our website.

As I said, Kibali delivered another strong quarter with higher production and improved unit costs across the board, supported in part by a reduction in sustaining capital. We also commissioned the solar power plant and battery energy storage system further strengthening Kibali's position as one of the most automated and also one of the greenest gold mines in the world.

Tanzania delivered another on-track quarter with North Mara continuing its steady performance. At Bulyanhulu, work continues on the expansion project with a focus on a second access and production area to support future growth. Gold sales during the quarter trailed production slightly in Tanzania as we adapt to the new legislation requiring 20% of the production to be reserved for in-country trading with an associated royalty reduction benefit.

And now Zambia and Lumwana, we are very excited about our progress at the Lumwana super pit expansion. The operation continued its steady upward trajectory with year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter increases in production and a positive reduction across all key metrics. The expansion project itself is well on track. We've refined the development plan and Lumwana has self-funded the project through operating cash flows so far this year, and we expected to do that for the rest of the year at current spot prices.

Once complete, the expanded operation is expected to deliver 240,000 tonnes of copper per year supported by a 52 million tonne per annum processing plant and a mine life of more than 30 years. And it's worth just looking at the right-hand side of the results there. And if you look at last year, quarter 2, 2024, production, copper produced 25,000 tonnes and then quarter 1, '25, 27,000; quarter, 2, '25, 44,000 and a commensurate drop in the unit cost per pound of copper, an all-in unit -- all-in sustaining costs. It's very material. And that's where our focus is. Lumwana is a mine that since Barrick acquired it, never made a profit until 2020. And it was all in discipline and unit costs. And today, we are going to expand that. And we need the all-in sustaining cost to be under $3. And then you really -- that proves our feasibility model extremely well.

As you know, there are not many copper mines that are capable of delivering plus -- I mean, minus $3 a pound all-in sustaining costs. And again, Africa and the Middle East remains well positioned to replace its reserve depletion again this year. A hallmark of the region over the many years that has been operating. And this quarter, we continued to advance near-mine exploration with standout progress along the ARK corridor at Kibali with drilling, extending mineralized loads and confirming significant exploration upside. And that ARK sits right next to the main KCD orebody, which is the real basis of Kibali's value.

Greenfield programs are also progressing across the region in Tanzania, the DRC and across the Central African copper belt, which plans both Southern DRC and Zambia. In addition, we continue to advance our early-stage exploration in Saudi Arabia, further reinforcing the depth of our pipeline across this region. This slide really speaks to the strength and resilience of our portfolio.

While we continue to work towards a solution for Loulo-Gounkoto, it is important to note that even without it, the underlying value of our portfolio still significantly exceeds our market value. Barrick remains a peerless opportunity to invest in a world-class gold

and copper business and few if any companies in the sector can match the depth or quality of the growth you see here. We grew production in quarter 2.

And the second half, as I have repeatedly said, is set to deliver both higher volumes and lower costs in line with our full year guidance. At the same time, we're replacing the gold and copper we mine and growing 30% organically by 2029. This is a portfolio we are building to deliver over the long term with Tier 1 assets, world-class people and a disciplined capital allocation strategy backing at all. It is our opinion that Barrick remains one of the most compelling investment cases in the gold and copper space today.

This is an enterprise with world-class assets, a clear growth strategy and the balance sheet to fund that growth without diluting our shareholder equity. We are consistently delivering on our promises, growing production, replacing our reserves and returning more capital to shareholders. This is a company built on the foundations of long-life assets, strong partnerships, financial discipline, exploration excellence and a sustainable operating model, the pillars that underpin everything we do.

In the world searching for real assets, strong partners and responsible growth. Barrick stands apart. Few can match what we offer and fewer still can do it without debt or dilution. Thank you very much for your attention, and we'll be happy to take questions.