Bausch + Lomb Corporation (NYSE:BLCO) Q2 2025 Earnings Conference Call July 30, 2025 8:00 AM ET

Company Participants

Brenton L. Saunders - CEO & Chairman
George Gadkowski - Corporate Participant
Osama A. Eldessouky - Executive VP & CFO
Yehia Hashad - Executive VP of Research & Development and Chief Medical officer

Conference Call Participants

Douglas Miehm - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Gary Jay Nachman - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Joanne Karen Wuensch - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Matthew Stephan Miksic - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Xuyang Li - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to Bausch + Lomb's Second Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to George Gadkowski, Vice President of Investor Relations and Business Insights. Please go ahead.

George Gadkowski

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our second quarter 2025 financial results conference call. Participating on today's call are Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brent Saunders; and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Sam Eldessouky. In addition to this live webcast, a copy of today's slide presentation and a replay of this conference call will be available on our website under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that our presentation today contains forward-looking information. We would ask that you take a moment to read the forward-looking legend at the beginning of our presentation as it contains important information. This presentation contains non-GAAP financial measures and ratios. For more information about these measures and ratios, please refer to Slide 1 of the presentation. Non-GAAP reconciliations can be found in the appendix to the presentation posted on our website.

The financial guidance in this presentation is effective as of today only. It is our policy to generally not update guidance until the following quarter unless required by law and not to update or affirm guidance other than through broadly disseminated public disclosure.

With that, it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Brent.

Brenton L. Saunders

Thank you, George, and thanks to everyone for joining us this morning. I'll start the call with an overview of our second quarter performance and how it aligns to the strategic road map we announced when I rejoined the company. Sam will unpack the financials and provide an update on 2025 guidance, and I'll close by highlighting standout products and services driving growth and future offerings with the potential to significantly improve the standard of care in eye health.

Maintaining focus in the current environment is easy to talk about, but hard to do. I continue to be immensely proud of the way my colleagues have executed on our strategy despite facing unexpected challenges. Our constant currency revenue growth speaks to the breadth and depth of our portfolio and is driven by a mix of hero products and a steady stream of new introductions around the world. Our contact lens performance is worth highlighting as we've continued to outpace industry growth averages, thanks to strong execution from the entire team.

There's no better example of selling excellence than the exponential growth in our comprehensive dry eye portfolio, which offers something for everyone. $1 billion is an important revenue milestone and a nice round number, but it will soon be in our rearview mirror as we continue to gain OTC and prescription market share. When it comes to operational excellence, look no further than our return to full production of our enVista intraocular lenses, which I'll speak to later.

We continue to have an intense focus on innovation and our robust pipeline represents the future of the company. We're excited to showcase potential game changers at our November 13 Investor Day, where we'll cover our most promising candidates in each business from concept to commercialization. The look and feel of our road map slide has evolved since first being introduced more than 2 years ago. What hasn't changed is our commitment to methodically moving through each phase as indicated by incremental advances in our progress with each update.

Parts of the first 2 phases are admittedly boring, but absolutely necessary as we stand on the precipice of Phase 3, accelerate growth. We've adopted the theme of our upcoming Investor Day for this update because the growth will largely be driven by what's next. Our commitment to stay in the course for the first 2 phases has helped fortify our base business and develop the processes, platforms and talent required to write the next chapter in Bausch + Lomb's storied history.

enVista implants continue to increase as we rapidly resupply the market. Surgeons who love these lenses before the voluntary recall have jumped right back in and adoption rates among others, including new users, are very encouraging as we make a significant push to recapture our momentum. We recently hired a new Head of North American Surgical with more than 30 years of industry experience to help turbocharge that effort. Earlier this month, he attended the American-European Congress of Ophthalmic Surgery Summer session, and he was met with excitement for our return and appreciation for our ongoing focus on patient safety and customer trust.

Earlier, I mentioned operational excellence, which has been a core component of our strategic road map. If based with this recall 2 years ago, our return to market would have taken much, much longer. That speaks to how far we've come and the importance of resilient, talented operators who are obsessed with getting the small things right. I'd like to draw your attention to the fine print for some of these figures. Big picture, our 3% constant currency revenue growth in the quarter would be doubled if you excluded the enVista recall. The difference becomes even more pronounced in our Surgical segment. The fact that there was constant currency growth in the quarter is impressive on its own, but it would have been 15% absent the recall.

Our Pharmaceutical segment performance also has an asterisk as underperformance in our U.S. generic business brought constant currency revenue growth in the quarter from a would be 6% to minus 1%. While we're obviously disappointed with the generic results, we're confident there will be a steady improvement in the second half of the year for U.S. generics, which has a new leader as of June. When it comes to our top-performing products in the second quarter, it's once again a story of launches and reinventions driving growth, which means our strategy is working. Nearly all the high-growth products shown here, which are spread out among our businesses, make the top 10 revenue list, that's staying power.

I'll now turn it over to Sam. But before I do, it's important to recognize his team's work in revamping our capital structure and securing improved credit agreements. The favorable terms allow for more flexibility going forward, and it's important to take advantage of these opportunities. Sam?

Osama A. Eldessouky

Thank you, Brent, and good morning, everyone. Before we begin, please note that all of my comments today will be focused on growth expressed on a constant currency basis unless specifically indicated otherwise. Turning now to our financial results on Slide 8. Total company revenue for the quarter was $1.278 billion, which reflects year-over-year growth of 3%. We delivered a solid quarter led by the performance in consumer, contact lenses and promoted pharma brands.

Our Surgical segment grew by 1%, absorbing a $29 million impact from the enVista recall in Q2. Excluding the impact of the enVista recall, total company revenue grew by 6% in the quarter. As Brent noted, enVista implants continue to increase as we resupply the market, and we are making a significant push to recapture our momentum. For the second quarter, currency was a tailwind of approximately $21 million to revenue. As a reminder, in Q1, we experienced currency headwinds. On a year-to-date basis, currency has had a nominal impact on both revenue and adjusted EBITDA.

Now let's discuss the results of each of our segments in more detail. Vision Care's second quarter revenue of $753 million increased by 6%, driven by growth in both consumer and contact lenses. The consumer business grew by 6% in Q2 as our key brands continue to perform well and consumption trends remained steady.

Let me go over a few highlights. In the quarter, LUMIFY grew by 27% and generated $61 million of revenue. We continued our strong execution in the dry eye portfolio, which delivered $115 million of revenue in Q2, representing 19% growth. Our 2 key franchises, ARTELAC and Blink, once again contributed to the strong performance. ARTELAC grew by 34% and Blink grew by 13% in the quarter. As we mentioned in Q1, we anticipated retailer destocking of inventory to take place in Q2. The destocking impact mainly affect our eye vitamins, which declined by 8% in the quarter. It is important to note that consumption trends continue to remain steady and demand remains solid.

Contact lenses revenue growth was 7%. Our contact lens business outpaced the market in 2024, and we continue to see strong performance in the first half of this year. In the quarter, we saw solid performance across our key brands. The Daily SiHy franchise was up 36% in Q2 and continues to be our fastest-growing brand. Our ULTRA monthly franchise grew by 8% and Biotrue was up 2% in the quarter. In Q2, our contact lens business saw broad-based growth and strong performance across our key markets. The U.S. was up 11%, EMEA was up 11%, LatAm grew by 25%, Japan grew 3% and China was up 7%.

Moving now to the Surgical segment. Second quarter revenue was $216 million, an increase of 1%. As I mentioned, this absorbs the impact of the enVista recall. Excluding the recall, Surgical segment growth in Q2 was 15%. Consumables, which represents approximately 56% of surgical revenue grew by 10%. The enVista recall impacted our Implantables business and parts of the

Equipment portfolio. Implantables declined by 16% in the quarter and Equipment declined by 2%. In the quarter, we made solid progress with the enVista return to market. As we progress through the year, we expect to continue to build on the performance.

From a phasing perspective, we expect to continue to make progress in Q3 and further ramp up in Q4. Lastly, revenue in the Pharma segment was $309 million in Q2, which represents a decline of 1%. Our U.S. branded Rx business was up 8% in the quarter, mainly driven by the continued growth of MIEBO. MIEBO delivered $63 million of revenue in Q2. This represents sequential growth of 11% and a year-over-year growth of 50%.

XIIDRA delivered $82 million of revenue in the quarter. We continue to see strong growth in XIIDRA volume with average weekly TRx up 12% on a year-over-year basis and 5% sequentially. MIEBO, XIIDRA and our consumer brands have established us as a clear leader in dry eye. We have built a robust dry eye platform to address all patient needs throughout their care journey, which gives us the confidence that we will continue to drive growth and leverage the portfolio to drive innovation.

Our International Pharma business was up 2% with strong performance across our markets in Europe. Our U.S. Generics business declined 29% in the quarter. As we have previously stated, we have taken a number of actions, which we expect will improve performance in the generics business in the second half of the year.

Now let me walk through some of the key non-GAAP line items on Slide 9. Adjusted gross margin for the second quarter was 60.6%, which represents a 130 basis point decrease year-over-year. This was driven by the onetime impact of the enVista recall, product mix and currency. In Q2, we invested $96 million in adjusted R&D, which represents an increase of approximately 12% over Q2 of 2024. Second quarter adjusted EBITDA, excluding acquired IPR&D was $192 million. This absorbs a one-time impact of $19 million from the enVista recall and [ $18 ] million impact from the decline in the U.S. Generics business.

Adjusted cash flow from operations was $86 million in the quarter. Adjusted net interest expense for the quarter was $94 million and adjusted EPS, excluding IPR&D, was $0.07 for the quarter. Finally, as part of our efforts to continue to optimize our capital structure, in June, we successfully executed a refinancing of $3.1 billion of our debt. The refinancing extended the majority of our maturities to 2031 and is expected to have a minimal impact on our interest expense.

Now turning to our 2025 guidance on Slide 12. We are raising our full year revenue guidance from a range of $5 billion to $5.1 billion to a range of $5.05 billion to $5.15 billion. The updated revenue guidance represents constant currency growth of approximately 5% to 7%, up from 4.5% to 6.5%. This new guidance range continues to absorb approximately 100 basis points from the one-time impact of the investor recall.

Shifting to adjusted EBITDA. We are raising our adjusted EBITDA guidance from a range of $850 million to $900 million to a range of $860 million to $910 million. In terms of the other key assumptions underlying our guidance, we continue to expect adjusted gross margin to be approximately 61.5%. As a reminder, the adjusted gross margin absorbs an estimated onetime 50 basis points headwind from the investor recall. For the full year, we continue to expect investments in R&D to be about 7.5% of revenue and interest expense to be approximately $375 million. We will continue to monitor the Fed's actions for the rest of the year.

We continue to expect our adjusted tax rate to be approximately 15% and full year CapEx to be approximately $280 million. In terms of phasing, for the remainder of the year, we expect the fourth quarter to be the highest. This is driven by the natural seasonality of our business, the ramp-up of enVista and the actions we're taking to improve performance in our U.S. Generics business as we progress through the remainder of the year. Consistent with our previous guidance, our current guidance excludes any potential one- time IPR&D charges that we may incur in 2025.

Finally, let me briefly address tariffs. The tariff policy remains fluid, and we're continuing to monitor updates. Based on where the policy stands today and the actions we're taking, our updated guidance assumes we will be able to offset the impact of tariffs in 2025.

Moving to Slide 13. Now let me provide some additional color on how to think about the updated revenue and adjusted EBITDA guidance in 2025. Our updated revenue guidance range of $5.05 billion to $5.15 billion reflects a $25 million raise driven by strong business performance and $25 million from currency tailwinds. The updated 2025 adjusted EBITDA guidance range of $860 million to $910 million includes approximately $10 million driven by business performance and our continued focus on disciplined cost management.

To sum up, we had a solid quarter. The markets are healthy, and our business fundamentals remain strong. We are committed to our strategy to drive sustainable growth and margin expansion.

And now I will turn the call back to Brent.

Brenton L. Saunders

Thanks, Sam. Let's focus on some of the more impressive second quarter performances and reasons to be so optimistic about the future of Bausch + Lomb. At the bottom of this slide, there's a simplified view of the dry eye journey for consumers and patients. No matter where they stop, whether it's an Amazon order or a visit to the pharmacy counter, we're there to meet them with solutions that have become among the favorite of eye care professionals. There are a few consumer options worth highlighting based on second quarter performance.

Momentum for Blink eye drops continues with 13% reported revenue growth. ARTELAC performance was even more impressive at 39% reported revenue growth, and it continues to be our most global dry eye option with availability in more than 40 countries and plans to expand further. Those products and others shown here drove a 16% constant currency revenue growth for the dry eye portfolio.

Expansion of the dry eye market shows no sign of slowing down, but there remains a gap in education and awareness. In fact, according to our updated state of the dry eye survey, 78% of sufferers wish they had more dry eye resources. We're doing our part to help fill that gap with our latest dry eye awareness month campaign, which encourages visits to knowyourdryeye.com and reinforces that there are a range of potential relief options available that may be appropriate depending on the cause, severity and frequency of symptoms.

The theme of this slide is stay in the course. When we acquired XIIDRA in 2023, we made clear our intentions to nurse the brand back to health and remind eye care professionals of its benefits. Sticking to this playbook has resulted in 12% year-over-year prescription growth and renewed excitement for a medication that produces hundreds of millions of dollars in annual revenue. Our work to improve profitability is far from done, but we're starting to see the benefits. MIEBO continues to be a juggernaut with 111% year- over-year prescription growth. The playbook hasn't changed there either.

Through extensive education and best-in-class field force, we've established MIEBO as the prescription solution for evaporative dry eye. Patient feedback continues to be overwhelmingly positive as made clear in the Phase IV data published earlier this year. Study participants reported rapid relief of symptoms and most commonly chose silky, smooth and soothing to describe how the drop felt on administration. Effective direct-to-consumer campaigns continue to raise awareness of our flagship branded dry eye medications, rounding out a thoughtful all-encompassing approach that accounts for every possible touch point.

The recent launches of preservative-free OTC options are a prime example of continuous brand reinvention and being responsive to evolving customer needs. LUMIFY preservative-free launched in May and brings the same fast-acting redness relief to those with sensitive eyes. While exponential growth has been a constant theme for LUMIFY, we're thinking well beyond the next few years. In fact, we recently settled patent disputes related to LUMIFY, enabling continued investment ahead of a date certain for generic launch. Introducing preservative-free options for Blink, now means there are 6 dry eye drops to choose from in addition to multiple contact lens, lubricating drops and a once-a-day nutraceutical that's quickly becoming the most trusted among eye care professionals.

Optionality matters for consumers looking for OTC relief and the growing Blink family, a global brand, checks every box. While Daily SiHy was once again the clear standout with 36% constant currency revenue growth in the second quarter, it's important to note that all our key contact lens brands are growing. That includes ULTRA monthly contacts with 8% constant currency revenue growth, an impressive figure for a legacy brand bucking the trend of a gradual shift towards daily lenses.

Our thoughtful approach to expanding our daily SiHy portfolio hasn't changed with plans to introduce multifocal and toric options in several markets next year and realize the expected benefits of offering a full suite of lenses. Those benefits are clear in the U.S. with 40% constant currency revenue growth in the second quarter. In May, we received European approval for LuxLife, full range of vision IOL, the latest example of our push into the high-margin premium market. The lens has an impressive clinical profile and early feedback from surgeon mirrors our excitement about the latest addition to the Lux portfolio.

Our stage [ rollout ] of premium offerings continues with the anticipated soft launch of enVista MV in Europe later this year and expected early 2027 U.S. launch for enVista Beyond. Our pipeline slides should be familiar to you by now, but I won't go too deep to avoid spoiling Investor Day. I'll remind you that we have multiple shots on goal in each of our businesses and the focus is category disruption as opposed to modest improvement. Importantly, this isn't aspirational. We've initiated clinical studies for several of these products with others to follow soon. I look forward to seeing many of you in November where members of the R&D team and our commercial leaders will bring these products to life. Let's move to Q&A now. Operator?