The Cheesecake Factory Incorporated (CAKE) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 5:00 PM EDT

Company Participants

Etienne Marcus - Vice President of Finance & Investor Relations
David Overton - Founder, Chairman & CEO
David Gordon - President
Matthew Clark - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Andrew Barish - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Brian Vaccaro - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Jon Tower - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Sharon Zackfia - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
David Tarantino - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Hyun Jin Cho - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Sara Senatore - BofA Securities, Research Division
Brian Bittner - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Brian Harbour - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Lauren Silberman - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
John Ivankoe - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Dennis Geiger - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jeffrey Farmer - Gordon Haskett Research Advisors
William Prause - Stephens Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. My name is Tina, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Cheesecake Factory, Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

It is now my pleasure to turn today's conference over to Etienne Marcus, Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Etienne Marcus
Vice President of Finance & Investor Relations

Good afternoon, and welcome to our third quarter fiscal 2025 earnings call. On the call with me today are David Overton, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; David Gordon, our President; and Matt Clark, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, let me quickly remind you that during this call, items will be discussed that are not based on historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could be materially different from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements as a result of the factors detailed in today's press release, which is available on our website at investors.thecheesecakefactory.com, and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

All forward-looking statements made on this call speak only as of today's date. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements. In addition, during this conference call, we will be presenting results on an adjusted basis, which exclude acquisition-related items and impairment of assets and lease termination expenses. Explanations of our use of non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures appear in our press release on our website as previously described.

David Overton will begin today's call with some opening remarks. David Gordon will provide an operational update. Matt will then review our third quarter financial results and provide commentary on our financial outlook before opening up the call to questions.

With that, I'll turn the call over to David Overton.

David Overton
Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Etienne. Our third quarter results were solid with consolidated revenues within our guidance range and earnings and profitability finishing above the high end of our expectations. Our performance was led by the Cheesecake Factory restaurants delivering positive comparable sales results amid a more challenging and competitive environment, underscoring the strength and resilience of our brands.

While we, along with the broader restaurant industry, are navigating a softer macro and consumer environment, our overall performance remained stable, in line with expectations. These results highlight the healthy demand for our high-quality concepts, the strength of our operators and the durability of our business model. Specifically, comparable sales at the Cheesecake Factory restaurants increased 0.3% for the third quarter with annualized unit volumes averaging over $12 million.

We believe our strategic focus on menu innovation remains a key point of differentiation, supporting our broad consumer appeal and strong relevance with guests. Our new menu offerings are resonating well, reflecting the success of our culinary innovation. We will continue to lean into this core strength to keep our menu highly relevant while providing exceptional value without relying on discounting. Supported by improved retention, our operators once again executed at a high level, driving year-over-year improvements in labor productivity and wage management, resulting in meaningful profitability growth.

The Cheesecake Factory's restaurant-level profit margin increased 60 basis points year-over-year to 16.3%, with margin improvement also realized at North Italia and Flower Child.

Turning to development. In the third quarter, we opened 2 FRC restaurants and 2 Cheesecake restaurants opened in Mexico under a licensing agreement. Subsequent to quarter end, we opened 1 additional FRC restaurant. With 19 restaurant openings so far this year, we're well positioned to meet our objective of opening as many as 25 new restaurants in 2025. Looking ahead to 2026, we plan to further accelerate development with as many as 26 new restaurant openings across our portfolio of concepts.

As we move forward, we will remain focused on delivering exceptional food, service and hospitality, the hallmarks of our success while continuing to execute against our long-term growth strategy.

With that, I will now turn the call over to David Gordon to provide an operational update.

David Gordon
President

Thank you, David. Our teams once again demonstrated strong leadership and operational discipline this quarter, delivering improvements across multiple areas of the business while maintaining consistently high levels of guest satisfaction. Their efforts were instrumental in driving profitability and ensuring our guests continue to receive the exceptional service and hospitality that sets us apart.

These results are a direct outcome of our sustained investment in our people. We remain committed to developing and supporting our managers and staff members, and that focus has yielded meaningful results. Over the past several quarters, we have achieved notable year-over-year improvements in both manager and hourly staff retention. In addition, our already strong team engagement scores have remained at historically high levels, underscoring the strength of our culture and the effectiveness of our people-first approach.

As part of this ongoing commitment, we hosted our General Manager conference last month, where we emphasized culinary excellence, focusing on elevating the quality of the food we serve every day and further optimizing our kitchen systems to ensure consistent execution of our broad and complex menu.

Speaking of our menu, as David noted earlier, our recent additions are resonating strongly with guests. The new bites have driven higher appetizer attachment rates, while the new bowls are among some of the most frequently ordered new items we've introduced in recent years. Together, these new offerings have contributed to an improvement in check mix and demonstrated the success of our menu innovation efforts.

Turning to Cheesecake Rewards. We remain highly encouraged by the program's positive momentum. Membership growth remains strong and member satisfaction continues to over-index. In a recent internal survey, members shared positive feedback, noting that the program is easy to use, delivers clear value and encourages them to dine with us more often. This validation reinforces our confidence that we are on the right path in delivering meaningful value to our most loyal guests. Earlier this year, we shifted to a more personalized strategy and the results have been promising with a notable uptick in member engagement.

Looking ahead, we will continue refining offers to improve their effectiveness and look for ways to enhance the overall guest experience, including how we engage with our members. To that end, we're currently developing a dedicated rewards app, which we believe will provide a more seamless and impactful way to engage with our guests.

Turning to North Italia. Third quarter annualized AUVs reached $7.3 million. Comparable sales declined 3%, reflecting sales trends in the broader industry, which softened in the quarter and continued pressure from some sales transfer from recently opened restaurants as well as the lingering impact of the Los Angeles fires. That said, our strong manager and staff retention enables us to execute at a high level, and we remain confident in our ability to compete effectively in a more challenging and competitive environment. Restaurant level profit margin for the adjusted mature North Italia locations improved 70 basis points from the prior year to 15.7%.

The margin expansion was driven by operational improvements as well as more favorable commodity inflation. Flower Child continues to perform exceptionally well with third quarter comparable sales increasing 7%, significantly outpacing the fast casual segment. This strong sales performance translated into annualized AUVs of $4.6 million.

The combination of robust top line growth and disciplined operational execution drove restaurant-level profit margins for adjusted mature Flower Child locations to 17.4% in the third quarter, an improvement of 140 basis points year-over-year. And lastly, we expanded our FRC portfolio with the openings of Culinary Dropout in Franklin, Tennessee, and The Henry in Carlsbad, California. Both restaurants opened to strong demand and early sales momentum with average weekly sales surpassing $200,000.

And with that, let me turn the call over to Matt for our financial review.

Matthew Clark
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, David. Let me first provide a high-level recap of our third quarter results versus our expectations I outlined last quarter. Total revenues of $907 million finished near the midpoint of the range we provided. Adjusted net income margin of 3.7% exceeded the high end of the guidance we provided, and we returned $13.8 million to our shareholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases.

Now turning to some more specific details around the quarter. Third quarter total sales at The Cheesecake Factory restaurants were $651.4 million, up 1% from the prior year. Comparable sales increased 0.3% versus the prior year. Total sales for North Italia were $83.5 million, up 16% from the prior year period. Other FRC sales totaled $78 million, up 16% from the prior year, and sales per operating week were $115,600. Flower Child sales totaled $48.1 million, up 31% from the prior year, and sales per operating week were $88,200. And external bakery sales were $18 million, up 20% from the prior year period.

Now moving to year-over-year expense variance commentary. In the third quarter, we continued to realize some year-over-year improvement across several key line items in the P&L. Specifically, cost of sales decreased 80 basis points, primarily driven by favorable commodity costs. Labor as a percent of sales declined 30 basis points, primarily driven by the continued improvement in retention, supporting labor productivity gains and wage leverage.

Other operating expenses increased 50 basis points, primarily driven by higher facility-related costs. G&A remained relatively flat as a percent of sales. Depreciation increased 10 basis points from the prior year. Preopening costs were $6.6 million in the quarter compared to $7 million in the prior year period. We opened 2 restaurants during the third quarter versus 4 restaurants in the third quarter of 2024. And in the third quarter, we recorded a pretax net expense of $0.8 million, primarily related to FRC acquisition-related expenses.

Third quarter GAAP diluted net income per share was $0.66. Adjusted diluted net income per share was $0.68. Now turning to our balance sheet and capital allocation. The company ended the quarter with total available liquidity of approximately $556.5 million, including a cash balance of $190 million and approximately $366.5 million available on our revolving credit facility. Total principal amount of debt outstanding was $644 million, including $69 million in principal amount of convertible notes due 2026 and $575 million in principal amount of convertible notes due 2030.

CapEx totaled approximately $37 million during the third quarter for new unit development and maintenance. During the quarter, we completed approximately $1.2 million in share repurchases and returned $12.6 million to shareholders via our dividend. Now let me turn to our outlook. While we will not be providing specific comparable sales and earnings guidance, we will provide our updated thoughts on our underlying assumptions for Q4 2025 and full year 2026.

Our assumptions factor in everything we know as of today, including net restaurant counts, quarter-to-date trends, our expectations for the weeks ahead, anticipated impacts associated with holiday shifts and the recent softness in industry sales trends and a more cautious consumer environment. Specifically, for Q4, we anticipate total revenues to be between $940 million and $955 million, representing an approximate 1% step down from the Q3 sales trend. Next, at this time, we expect effective commodity inflation of low single digits for Q4.

We are modeling net total labor inflation of low to mid-single digits when factoring in the latest trends in wage rates and minimum wage increases as well as other components of labor. G&A is estimated to be about $60 million. Depreciation is estimated to be approximately $28 million. We are estimating preopening expenses to be approximately $8 million to $9 million to support the 7 planned openings in the quarter and early Q1 openings.

Based on these assumptions, we would anticipate adjusted net income margin to be about 5.1% at the midpoint of the sales range provided. And importantly, even with the current top line headwinds, our full year outlook for 4.9% net income margin remains intact, underpinned by prudent financial management and operational efficiency. For modeling purposes, we are assuming a tax rate of approximately 12% and weighted average shares outstanding of 49 million.

With regard to development, as David stated earlier, we expect to open as many as 25 new restaurants in 2025. This includes as many as 4 Cheesecake Factories, 6 North Italias, 6 Flower Childs and 9 FRC restaurants. And we continue to anticipate approximately $190 million to $200 million in cash CapEx to support this year's and some of next year's unit development as well as required maintenance on our restaurants.

Turning to fiscal 2026. This reflects our initial outlook based on what we know today. And given the dynamic macro backdrop, we'll continue to update our assumptions as conditions evolve. First, with regard to development, as David stated earlier, we plan to continue accelerating unit growth next year. At this time, we expect to open as many as 26 new restaurants in 2026, with roughly 3/4 of those openings planned for the second half of the year.

Next, based on our estimates for net operating week growth and depending on the length of the current softer consumer environment, we are targeting total revenue growth of approximately 4% to 5% for 2026 over full year 2025, with sales trends expected to improve as the year progresses. We currently estimate total inflation across our commodity basket, labor and other operating expenses to be in the low to mid-single-digit range and fairly consistent across the quarters.

And we expect G&A, depreciation and preopening expenses to remain essentially flat as a percent of sales compared to 2025. Based on these assumptions, we would expect full year net income margin to be approximately 5% at the midpoint of the sales range provided. For modeling purposes, we are assuming a tax rate of approximately 12% and weighted average shares outstanding relatively flat to 2025. And we would anticipate approximately $200 million to $210 million in cash CapEx to support unit development as well as required maintenance on our restaurants.

Note that the total CapEx estimated range assumes a similar mix of new restaurant openings by concept as 2025. In closing, we delivered another quarter of stable performance and strong profitability despite a more cautious consumer backdrop. Our operators executed at a high level. Our portfolio of high-quality concepts remains well positioned and our balance sheet and cash flow provide a solid foundation for growth. We remain confident in our ability to navigate a dynamic macro environment as we have successfully done so in the past. And we believe our strong execution and resilient business model will enable us to emerge even stronger. With our scale and financial strength, we are well positioned to continue creating meaningful long-term shareholder value.

With that said, we'll take your questions.