CVS Health Corporation (CVS) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 29, 2025 8:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Larry McGrath - Executive VP, Chief Strategy Officer & Chief Strategic Advisor to the CEO
J. Joyner - President, CEO & Director
Brian Newman - Executive VP & CFO
Prem Shah - Executive VP & Group President
Steven Nelson - Executive VP & President of Aetna

Conference Call Participants

Lisa Gill - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Justin Lake - Wolfe Research, LLC
Elizabeth Anderson - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Stephen Baxter - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Michael Cherny - Leerink Partners LLC, Research Division
Eric Percher - Nephron Research LLC
Andrew Mok - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
George Hill - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Kevin Caliendo - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to CVS Health's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.

I would now like to pass to Larry McGrath, Chief Strategy Officer. Larry, please proceed.

Larry McGrath
Executive VP, Chief Strategy Officer & Chief Strategic Advisor to the CEO

Good morning, and welcome to the CVS Health Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call and Webcast. I'm Larry McGrath, Chief Strategy Officer. I'm joined this morning by David Joyner, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Newman, Chief Financial Officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll host a question-and-answer session that will include additional members of the leadership team. Our press release and slide presentation have been posted to our website, along with our Form 10-Q filed this morning with the SEC. Today's call is also being broadcast on our website, where it will be archived for 1 year.

During this call, we'll make certain forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from currently projected results. We strongly encourage you to review the reports we file with the SEC regarding these risks and uncertainties, in particular, those that are described in the cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements and risk factors in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed this morning and our recent filings on Form 8-K, including this morning's earnings press release.

During this call, we will use non-GAAP measures when talking about the company's financial performance and financial condition. And you can find a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures in this morning's press release and in the reconciliation document posted to the Investor Relations portion of our website.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to David. David?

J. Joyner
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Larry, and good morning, everyone. This morning, we are pleased to report another quarter of solid results, once again reflecting the power of our diversified business and progress on becoming the most trusted health care company in America.

In the third quarter, we delivered adjusted operating income of $3.5 billion and adjusted earnings per share of $1.60. In addition, for the third consecutive quarter, we are increasing our full year 2025 adjusted earnings per share guidance to a range of $6.55 to $6.65, up from our previous range of $6.30 to $6.40.

Over the past 12 months, we have been intensely focused on executing against our commitments to our customers, partners, colleagues and shareholders. We are building momentum across the enterprise and feel a growing excitement about the opportunities ahead for CVS Health. We are incredibly proud of what we have accomplished so far this year. While we are encouraged by our progress, we maintain a disciplined and cautious outlook as we position our business for another year of strong performance in 2026. This transformation is clearly visible within our Aetna business where after a challenging 2024, there is renewed bigger and optimism about the future. Steve, Katrina and the broader Aetna team are well on the path to ensuring this business is best-in-class.

The Aetna team continues to drive impactful and exceptional results. Aetna is once again the industry leader amongst national payers for 2026 Medicare Advantage Stars Ratings, even with CMS recently announcing that cut points for stars continue to become more challenging. Based on the current membership, we expect over 81% of our Medicare Advantage members will be in plans rated 4 stars or higher with over 63% of them in 4.5 star plans, nearly double the industry average. This result is not just a point of pride, but another proof point that our ability to effectively collaborate across the enterprise allows us to deliver exceptional quality and service, drive down the cost of care and remove friction from the health care system. We are still in the early stages of the 2026 annual enrollment period, but we remain confident that our thoughtful approach to our geographic footprint, benefit design and pricing positions us well for another year of recovery.

In my first year as CEO, I have pushed our team to act with urgency and focus as we execute on opportunities to improve our business. This means making thoughtful and difficult decisions, such as exiting our individual exchange business or taking advantage of market opportunities like our acquisition of the Rite Aid assets.

In a similar way, as we outlined last quarter, we are moving with urgency to address pressures in Health Care Delivery. During the quarter, we recorded a $5.7 billion goodwill impairment within Health Care Delivery. I want to be clear that this business' performance in the quarter was in line with our most recent expectations. However, our decision during the quarter to temper Oak Street Health Clinic growth over the next few years was the primary reason for recording this charge. Despite this update, value-based care remains a critical component of our strategy. The reasons to believe in this business have not changed, but the marketplace is evolving and we are adapting our strategy to get financial performance back in line with our expectations. We understand the challenges at Oak Street Health and have taken actions to improve performance in both the near and long term. We continue to strengthen our Health Care Delivery business through investments in technology, a new leadership team and a fair and equitable contracts with our payer clients.

Turning to Pharmacy Services. We're incredibly proud of the meaningful impact we've had on drug cost in this country. As you've seen with our recently announced IVF initiative with the administration, we are strong supporters of President Trump's focus on lowering brand prices in America. This is important for our patients, our customers and for our business model. By tackling branded pharmas and equitable pricing strategies that have left Americans carrying the financial weight of global drug innovation, the government is helping to relieve a long-standing burden on U.S. consumers and businesses. We believe that over time, the administration's actions can create a new lower ceiling price in the U.S. in which PBMs will continue to negotiate and further reduce costs for their customers and consumers. This has been our job for more than 3 decades, and we have been tremendously successful at achieving durable results. We believe these actions are good for us, for our customers and for consumers, and we are encouraged to see the impact they may create for the industry.

As the leading health care consumer company, we've been working diligently for years to lead with greater transparency and savings for consumers at the pharmacy counter. We were at the forefront of this transition with more than 25 million members who benefit at the pharmacy counter from our lowest net cost through point-of-sale rebates. This includes our Aetna fully insured commercial members who we transitioned in 2019 and the benefit design we offer our own colleagues. Two years ago, we continued our innovation leadership when we introduced our new TrueCost model, which guarantees a net cost for each individual drug, delivering drug pricing transparency for our clients and consumers. We are encouraged by recent announcements that others are following us on this path. We know that this is the transition that consumers want and is also important for the future of our business.

We're incredibly encouraged by the path Caremark is on. However, we acknowledge there are near-term market dynamics from a few of our client contracts that have resulted in a revision to our guidance and will impact our near-term growth rate. While incorporating this, as Brian will discuss later, we continue to expect meaningful growth in enterprise earnings next year. We are working diligently to recontract over the next few years and resolve this issue.

Importantly, clients, including the most sophisticated buyers of pharmacy benefit services, continue to see the tremendous value we provide, as evidenced by another strong selling season. We have achieved new client wins of nearly $6 billion and are closing out another selling season with retention in the high 90s. I am incredibly bullish about the road ahead and believe we will continue to lead this industry given our unique advantages and insights.

Turning to PCW. Our leadership is clear in the retail pharmacy market as we work towards a more sustainable and transparent future. Our deliberate strategic decisions, intentional investments, best-in-class drug purchasing and superior customer service have meaningfully improved our differentiated position in the market. Once again this quarter, CVS Pharmacy delivered solid performance, including pharmacy share gains. This is a testament to the strength and scalability of our model as well as the commitment of our engaged colleagues. We play a critical role in improving the health of millions of Americans by providing convenient health services, including vaccinations. Our 9,000 pharmacies are the front door to our enterprise. They are a differentiator for our business and a force multiplier towards improving the health of the communities that we serve.

For CVS Health, being the most trusted health care company in America means improving health, simplifying care and delivering a quality experience every day. We do not take this responsibility lightly and it is this team's firm belief that we must drive the evolution of health care forward in the U.S. We have unique capabilities to achieve all of those goals. The strength of our diversified businesses continue to set us apart, enabling us to deliver strong results even in this dynamic environment. The progress we've made this year is fueling momentum and our disciplined execution positions us for another year of strong performance in 2026. We are working to simplify health care and are bullish about the opportunities we see to lower the cost of care and drive innovation. Our future is bright because of the work of our more than 300,000 colleagues who take care of their friends, families and neighbors and communities across our country. We look forward to sharing more on our longer-term plans at our Investor Day on December 9.

With that, I'd like to hand the call over to Brian. Brian?

Brian Newman
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, David, and good morning. I will cover 4 key topics in my remarks. First, an update on our third quarter results. Then I'll discuss cash flow and the balance sheet. After that, I will provide an update on our revised financial outlook for the remainder of 2025. And finally, I'll wrap up with a brief discussion on high-level headwinds and tailwinds as we look ahead to 2026.

As David mentioned, we are pleased to report another quarter of solid performance and to deliver a third quarter in a row where we beat and raised expectations as we continue to focus on building a track record of consistent success. We improved our full year outlook for revenue, adjusted EPS and cash flow from operations and are building positive momentum as we close out the year.

Let me start with highlights on our enterprise results in the quarter. Third quarter revenues achieved a new record of nearly $103 billion, an increase of approximately 8% over the prior year quarter driven by revenue growth across all segments. Adjusted operating income of approximately $3.5 billion, increased approximately 36% from the prior year quarter, primarily driven by an improvement in our Health Care Benefits segment. We delivered adjusted EPS of $1.60, an increase of nearly 47% from the prior year quarter. Finally, we generated year-to-date cash flow from operations of approximately $7.2 billion.

Turning now to each of our segments. In Health Care Benefits, we generated nearly $36 billion of revenue in the quarter, an increase of over 9% from the prior year. This increase is primarily driven by our government business, largely related to the impact of the Inflation Reduction Act on the Medicare Part D program. We ended the quarter with medical membership of approximately 26.7 million, which was flat sequentially and decreased approximately 445,000 members from the prior year quarter. This year-over-year decrease is primarily driven by declines in our individual exchange and Medicare product lines, partially offset by growth in our commercial fee-based membership.

Adjusted operating income in the quarter was approximately $314 million, a substantial increase from the adjusted operating loss recorded in the prior year quarter. Our medical benefit ratio was 92.8%, a decrease of 240 basis points from the prior year quarter results of 95.2%. The change was driven by the favorable year-over-year impact of premium deficiency reserves, higher favorable prior period development and improved underlying performance in our government business. These increases were partially offset by changes in the seasonality of the Medicare Part D program due to the impact of the IRA and the impact of higher acuity in the individual exchange product line.

Our medical benefit ratio this quarter was impacted by approximately 100 basis points due to provider liabilities for matters dating as far back as 2018 and worsening individual exchange risk adjustment expectations based on the Wakely data. Each of these 2 items were roughly equivalent.

Medical cost trends in the quarter remained elevated across all products, but were modestly favorable relative to our expectations, primarily driven by our individual MA book. Days claim payable at the end of the quarter was approximately 42.5 days, an increase of approximately 1.6 days sequentially, primarily driven by the partial release of premium deficiency reserves established in the first half of 2025 as well as an additional day in the third quarter compared to the second quarter. We remain confident in the adequacy of our reserves.

Shifting now to our Health Services segment. During the quarter, we generated revenues of over $49 billion, an increase of over 11% year-over-year. This increase was primarily driven by pharmacy drug mix and brand inflation, partially offset by continued pharmacy client price improvements. Adjusted operating income in the quarter of approximately $2.1 billion decreased 7% from the prior year quarter, primarily driven by continued pharmacy client price improvements, partially offset by improved purchasing economics.

Performance in our Health Care Delivery business during the quarter was broadly in line with our expectations. Total revenues grew approximately 25% compared to the same quarter last year, excluding the impact of our exit from our CVS Accountable Care business earlier this year. This increase was primarily driven by patient growth at Oak Street and increased volumes at Signify. During the quarter, we made certain strategic changes in our Health Care Delivery business, including the decision to reduce the number of new Oak Street clinics we expect to open over the next several years. These changes necessitated a quantitative assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in our Health Care Delivery reporting unit, which resulted in a goodwill impairment charge of approximately $5.7 billion during the quarter.

We are focused on improving financial performance in our Health Care Delivery business. As discussed last quarter, we have and continue to take actions at Oak Street to enhance our operations. During the quarter, we completed a comprehensive review of our Oak Street clinic footprint. As David mentioned, this is core to our approach of evaluating each of our businesses, identifying strengths and making decisions to drive improved execution and performance. Following our review, we made the difficult decision to close underperforming clinics where we do not see a reasonable path to sustainable margins. To be clear, we view value-based care as a critical component to our Medicare strategy and expect the actions we are taking to support improved financial performance beginning next year.

Our Pharmacy & Consumer Wellness segment delivered another strong quarter. We generated revenues of over $36 billion, an increase of nearly 12% versus the prior year quarter, primarily driven by pharmacy drug mix and increased prescription volume, partially offset by continued pharmacy reimbursement pressure. Revenues in the quarter increased over 14% on a same-store basis. Our retail pharmacy script share grew to approximately 28.9% as our emphasis on operational excellence and superior customer experiences enables us to benefit from pharmacy market disruption.

Same-store pharmacy sales in the quarter grew nearly 17% compared to the prior year, driven by pharmacy drug mix and a nearly 9% increase in same-store prescription volumes. Same-store front store sales increased 150 basis points versus the prior year quarter. Adjusted operating income decreased approximately 7% from the prior year to approximately $1.5 billion. This decrease was primarily driven by continued pharmacy reimbursement pressure and increased investments in colleagues and capabilities. These items were partially offset by increased prescription volume.

Shifting now to cash flow and the balance sheet. We generated cash flows from operations of approximately $7.2 billion year-to-date through the third quarter. We have distributed approximately $2.6 billion in dividends to our shareholders year-to-date, and we ended the quarter with approximately $2.3 billion of cash at the parent and unrestricted subsidiaries. We continue to meaningfully improve our leverage ratio, supported by our strong year-to-date performance and expect to make further improvement next year as we grow enterprise earnings driven by margin recovery in our Aetna business.

Shifting now to our revised outlook for 2025. We are increasing our full year 2025 guidance for adjusted EPS to a range of $6.55 to $6.65, an increase of $0.25. This update reflects our third quarter performance and our revised expectations for the remainder of the year, which continue to maintain a prudent outlook on medical cost trends and macro factors. We now expect full year total revenues of at least $397 billion, an increase of nearly $6 billion driven by increases across all segments.

In our Health Care Benefits segment, we now expect full year adjusted operating income of approximately $2.72 billion at the low end of our guidance range, an increase of approximately $300 million reflecting our performance in the third quarter and improved expectations for the remainder of the year. We continue to project our full year 2025 medical benefit ratio at the low end of our Health Care Benefits adjusted operating income guidance range to be approximately 91%. This outlook continues to maintain a thoughtful and prudent view on medical cost trends through the remainder of the year.

In our Health Services segment, we now expect full year adjusted operating income of at least $7.1 billion, a decrease of approximately $240 million from our prior guidance. This update reflects our latest expectations for performance that David highlighted in his remarks. Importantly, we continue to make progress evolving our contracting and pricing models to respond and adapt to market dynamics. We are confident we're on the path to lead the evolution with our new TrueCost model, which guarantees a net cost of each individual drug, driving drug pricing transparency for our clients and members.

The outlook for our Health Care Delivery business remains largely unchanged.

Lastly, in our Pharmacy & Consumer Wellness segment, we now expect full year adjusted operating income of at least $5.95 billion, an increase of approximately $270 million from our prior guidance. This increase reflects our performance in the third quarter and our revised expectations for the remainder of the year, while continuing to maintain a prudent outlook for the rest of the immunization season and potential impacts to the consumer environment.

In aggregate, we now expect full year enterprise adjusted operating income to be in the range of $14.14 billion to $14.31 billion. We are also increasing our expectations for full year cash flow from operations to be in a range of $7.5 billion to $8 billion. Additionally, we now expect our full year adjusted effective tax rate to be 25.3%, an improvement of 40 basis points. You can find additional details on the components of our 2025 guidance on our Investor Relations website.

Before we open the call up to Q&A, I also want to provide an update on some of the key headwinds and tailwinds for 2026. Consistent with past practice, we expect to provide formal 2026 guidance at our Investor Day in December.

Beginning with our Health Care Benefits business, we expect another year of meaningful margin improvement at Aetna. This includes another year of progress in our Medicare Advantage business, supported by our disciplined approach to plan design and footprint in individual as well as repricing opportunities in our group business. We also expect a tailwind from our exit of the individual exchange business. Although our conversations with our Medicaid state partners continue to progress and this business has performed in line with our expectations this year, we are taking a cautious outlook in light of the broader pressures across the industry.

In our Health Services segment, we expect improvement in our Health Care Delivery business, primarily driven by Oak Street Health. In our Caremark business, we expect modestly lower growth as we continue our work to transition our contracts towards drug level pricing over the next few years. Altogether, we expect the segment to deliver low single-digit adjusted operating income growth next year.

And in our Pharmacy & Consumer Wellness segment, we are encouraged by our strong performance this year and expect this momentum to continue into next year. While challenges, including reimbursement pressure and the impact of shifting consumer dynamics remain in this business, we currently expect the trajectory to improve relative to our long-term expectation of a 5% decline.

I would also remind everyone that consistent with past practice, the impact of prior year reserve development and other out-of-period items should be removed when considering an appropriate baseline for bridging to 2026. As of the end of the quarter, these items contributed approximately $0.45 to our year-to-date results. Altogether and after adjusting for these items, we currently expect a reasonable starting point for our 2026 adjusted EPS guidance to reflect mid-teens growth. We will provide formal guidance at our Investor Day on December 9.

Overall, we are encouraged by the year-to-date performance of our diversified enterprise and are confident we are taking the right steps to position us for both near- and long-term success. We recognize the importance of establishing credible commitments and expect to continue this philosophy as we establish future financial targets.

With that, we'll now open the call to your questions. Operator?