CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. (NYSE:CX) Q2 2025 Earnings Conference Call July 24, 2025 11:00 AM ET

Company Participants

Jaime Muguiro Domínguez - Chief Executive Officer
Louisa Page Rodriguez - Executive Vice President of Investor Relations, Corporate Communications & Public Affairs
Maher Al-Haffar - CFO and Executive VP of Finance & Administration

Conference Call Participants

Adrian Eugenio Huerta - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Alejandra Obregon Martinez - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Anne Jean Milne - BofA Securities, Research Division
Benjamin M. Theurer - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Daniel Sasson - Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A., Research Division
Francisco Suarez - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Gordon Lee - Banco BTG Pactual S.A., Research Division
José Itzamna Espitia Hernández - BBVA Corporate and Investment Bank, Research Division
Wilfredo Jorel Guilloty - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Yassine Touahri - On Field Investment Research LLP

Operator

Good morning. Welcome to the CEMEX Second Quarter 2025 Conference Call and Webcast. My name is Becky, and I will be your operator today. [Operator Instructions] And now I will turn the conference over to Lucy Rodriguez, Chief Communications Officer. Please proceed.

Louisa Page Rodriguez

Good morning, and thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2025 conference call and webcast. We hope this call finds you well. I'm joined today by Jaime Muguiro, our CEO; and by Maher Al-Haffar, our CFO.

We will start our call with an update on the progress made so far on our strategic priorities, followed by a review of our business and outlook for the second half of the year, and then we will be happy to take your questions. I will now hand the call over to Jaime.

Jaime Muguiro Domínguez

Thanks, Lucy, and good day to everyone. In our last earnings call in April, I presented a forward-looking vision for CEMEX, focusing on two primary objectives: attaining best-in-class operational excellence and delivering industry-leading shareholder returns. Since then, we have developed a comprehensive road map to achieve these goals and embarked on the first phase of implementation.

Our first actions were focused on transforming our corporate structure by streamlining overhead, fostering agility and empowering our regional teams to drive results. This process has involved difficult decisions that are necessary to support the company's long-term growth and competitiveness.

Today, I'd like to provide more detail regarding our strategic plan, highlight the actions we have taken thus far and outline what you can expect from us in the future. I will, of course, then review our second quarter performance, which once again exceeded internal expectations.

Our strategic framework is based on six guiding principles: effectively transforming our organization to achieve operational excellence and sustainable best-in-class shareholder return. These principles aim to improve profitability, increase our free cash flow conversion rate, boost asset efficiency and deliver compelling returns over cost of capital.

In the quarter, we moved quickly on the first lever, simplifying our operating model and empowering our regional operations to make more agile decisions. These actions are intended to promote an ownership mindset with a culture of increased accountability, responsibility and collaboration. At the core of this transformation is the reorganization of corporate areas to support operational excellence in our business units.

We also carried out the initial performance reviews of our regional businesses. I was joined by several members of my team conducting a thorough review of key performance indicators at the individual facility level in each of our regions. Based on these reviews, areas for potential improvement have been identified and detailed action plans have been developed so that underperforming assets meet predetermined return benchmarks. These action plans will support further strategic decisions regarding our footprint evolution at a local level with the goal of increasing profitability and free cash flow.

We have also examined in detail our ongoing growth CapEx pipeline to validate that every investment is on track to generate an appropriate and timely return. Execution of ongoing profitable projects will continue, but we intend to make a strategic shift towards prioritizing small to midsized M&A transactions in the U.S., aiming for immediate positive impact on earnings.

Finally, we have also introduced a new more structured and balanced capital allocation model to guide future capital deployment decisions. We are committed to progressively grow our shareholder return program. This effort should accelerate as profitability and free cash flow generation are boosted by our actions to date.

Since its introduction in February, we have further expanded our Project Cutting Edge program, a foundational element of our organization's transformation.

In our efforts to develop a leaner operating model and empower our regions, we have merged several centralized functions into our operations, while some corporate initiatives have been eliminated altogether or reorganized to better support the business.

As a result of the expansion of Project Cutting Edge and the steps we took in second quarter, we now expect EBITDA savings for this year to reach $200 million, up from our initial expectation of $150 million. And we anticipate a run rate of EBITDA savings of about $400 million by 2027. Included in these estimates are approximately $200 million of corporate headcount reduction on an annualized basis.

While this effort is largely behind us, there are still some additional actions expected in the second half. I am confident that this transformation will help us advance towards our goals, further strengthening CEMEX's position as an industry leader. And now allow me to review our second quarter performance.

Our second quarter results are aligned to our February guidance, which assumed a challenging first half, driven by difficult prior year comparison in Mexico. We expected and continue to believe that the back half of the year would bring year-over-year growth as we lap prior year pre-electoral spending in Mexico with an improvement in peso FX rate.

As in the first quarter, consolidated EBITDA once again outperformed our internal expectations. The EMEA region delivered impressive results, driven by volume recovery and operating leverage, extending its 4 consecutive quarters of earnings recovery. Consolidated EBITDA margin, even with volume decline remained relatively resilient with a stable to improved performance in three of our regions.

Variation of consolidated margin is largely driven by the effect of geographic mix. Net income in the quarter increased by 38% on the back of a strong FX rates as well as lower interest expense. The variation in free cash flow from operations is explained by EBITDA, working capital and severance payments as well as the one-off contribution from discontinued operations in the prior year.

Importantly, adjusting for severance and discontinued operations, free cash flow in the quarter would in fact be growing on a year- over-year basis. I expect free cash flow generation to improve in the second half with higher profitability and the typical seasonal reversal of working capital investment.

Consolidated prices are stable to positive on a sequential basis with ready-mix and aggregates prices up 1% and 2%, respectively. In cement, consolidated prices were relatively flat on a year-over-year basis, largely explained by geographic mix as volumes declined in Mexico and grew in EMEA.

Pricing in Mexico has been particularly resilient despite softer volumes. Since the beginning of the year, cement, ready-mix and aggregates prices have increased by 5%, 6% and 8%, respectively. In the U.S. aggregates prices adjusting for product mix increased by 5% in the first half compared to fourth quarter of 2024. In EMEA, the Middle East and Africa region, along with several markets in Europe experienced sequential pricing gains.

Our pricing strategy continues to achieve its goal of at least recovering cost inflation in our markets. Consolidated volume performance is largely explained by weaker volumes in Mexico and the U.S., partially offset by continued recovery in EMEA. We expect volumes in Mexico to improve in the second half as we lap difficult prior year comparison base and the new government accelerates its infrastructure and social housing plans.

In the U.S., volumes in the quarter reflect the soft trend in residential activity, along with increased precipitation in most of our markets. We are encouraged by the positive trend in Europe as this is the fourth consecutive quarter with cement volume growth on a year-over-year basis. The Middle East and Africa region is also showing robust volume growth.

Consolidated EBITDA performance is largely explained by volumes, partially offset by cost improvements as well as a tough comparison base with a record high second quarter EBITDA in prior year. Volume decline in Mexico and the U.S. was partially offset by growth in the EMEA region.

Costs contributed positively, largely due to energy and distribution. Energy costs on a per ton of cement basis declined 14%. The Mexican peso remained a relevant headwind, which was partially offset by the appreciation of other currencies in our portfolio. Importantly, even with a significant volume decline and lower operating leverage, our EBITDA margin remained resilient at a level slightly above the historical 10-year second quarter average. And now back to you, Lucy.

Louisa Page Rodriguez

Thank you, Jaime. As expected, second quarter results in Mexico continued to be challenged by the difficult prior year comparison driven by preelection social and infrastructure spending and the FX level as well as the first year of a new administration.

Volumes were further hampered by record national precipitation levels in June, which primarily impacted the central region. Significantly, we saw average daily cement sales in the quarter stabilized with low single-digit sequential growth. Demand in the Northeast region continues to outperform the rest of the country, both in terms of cement and ready-mix. This dynamic has been supported by ongoing industrial projects as well as state-driven infrastructure works.

We continue to see positive pricing performance for our products, rising by a low single-digit rate sequentially. Since the beginning of the year, cement ready-mix and aggregates prices are up 5%, 6% and 8%, respectively, as we work to offset prior year's input costs inflation. Additionally, we recently announced a high single-digit price increase for cement effective July.

Despite the volume headwind and resulting loss of operating leverage, margins were remarkably resilient, roughly flat to the prior year. This performance was driven by a combination of higher prices, favorable energy and Project Cutting Edge efforts. While FX impact moderated in the second quarter, it still accounted for about 40% of the variation in EBITDA.

Going into the second half of the year, we are optimistic as we lap the difficult comparison base in volumes and peso FX rate. In fact, assuming for the back half, the same level of average daily cement sales as second quarter, it would imply a 4% year-over-year decline in the second half.

Additionally, we do expect a pickup in construction activity, driven by the start of some railroad works as well as projects under the social housing program. Our ready-mix backlog is improving, mainly in the central region with relevant industrial projects expected to begin in the following months. Distribution centers and logistics developments are gaining momentum.

In the U.S., EBITDA declined by a mid-single-digit rate due primarily to lower volumes, given high levels of precipitation in many of our markets and continued weakness in the residential sector. Ready-mix volumes adjusted for asset divestitures declined by a mid- single-digit rate in line with cement and aggregates performance.

Sequential pricing was stable in cement and ready-mix with aggregates increasing by 1%, adjusting for product mix. Since the beginning of the year, aggregates prices adjusted for product mix are up 5%. EBITDA margin remained relatively stable, just shy of last year's record high. This performance is explained by higher prices and lower costs due to continued gains in operational efficiency with increased domestic production replacing imports.

Margin continues to improve in our two main products, cement and aggregates, which account for about 80% of our EBITDA. As part of our transformation efforts, we recently restructured our operations in the U.S., transitioning from a regionally based model to one organized by product line. We believe this change will encourage best practice sharing across regions, increase transparency in our business and provide a more comprehensive view of our asset footprint.

We are investing in our aggregates business and are already seeing the benefits of completed projects such as the Balcones quarry upgrade in Texas. Balcones is one of the largest quarries in the U.S. and the project is contributing to increased margins.

We are also expecting completion by year-end of another ongoing aggregates project, Four Corners at Sand Mine in Orlando, Florida. For 2025, we expect demand to be driven by infrastructure as IIJA transportation projects continue to roll out. Close to 50% of funds under IIJA have been spent and we expect to reach peak spending in 2026.

We remain optimistic about the outlook through the industrial and commercial sector, which is gaining momentum with data centers and chip manufacturing projects being planned in our markets as well as relevant works in Cape Canaveral. In addition, the recently approved U.S. budget bill includes some relevant provisions that are expected to bring forward investment in manufacturing facilities.

While there is continued pressure on the single-family home segment with slightly better performance in multifamily, we see strong potential in residential over the medium term once mortgage rates and market sentiment improved. The EMEA region continued to deliver strong performance, leading to the highest first half EBITDA in recent history with a solid margin expansion of almost 3 percentage points.

In Europe, strong volume growth in the quarter was driven by improved conditions in most markets with the exception of France, where we continue to see a soft macro backdrop and in Poland with weather and delays in infrastructure works impacting volumes. Infrastructure activity supported by EU funding increased, along with a modest improvement in the residential sector in most markets.

Demand conditions in the Middle East and Africa remained strong, expanding by double-digit rates. Construction activity in these markets is recovering, fueled by housing and nonresidential projects and in the case of Egypt, also by large infrastructure.

Sequential cement and ready-mix prices in EMEA increased 4% and 1%, respectively, while aggregates prices declined by 1%. On a cumulative basis, cement and ready-mix prices increased by 4%, while aggregates prices are up 3% compared to the fourth quarter of 2024. Higher volumes and prices, coupled with lower costs, primarily in power, led to a significant margin expansion.

Our operations in Europe continue progressing on decarbonization with net CO2 emissions in the quarter, reaching a new record low of 418 kilograms per ton of cement equivalent. This is an important milestone as CEMEX Europe has now surpassed our consolidated target for 2030, further enforcing our position as an industry leader. We believe that the implementation of the carbon border adjustment mechanism along with the gradual phaseout of free EU ETS allowances should be supportive of cement prices in 2026 and beyond.

We remain optimistic on the outlook for the region with a continued positive trend in infrastructure and further recovery in residential. In our South Central America and the Caribbean region, adjusting for business days in the quarter, cement volumes actually increased by 1%.

Demand in Colombia is being driven by the informal sector with a rebound in bag cement volumes and the Metro project in Bogotá. In Jamaica, tourism-related developments, along with improved bag cement sales are driving activity. Sequential prices in cement and ready-mix in the region were relatively stable after the mid-single-digit increase achieved in first quarter.

In Jamaica, we recently concluded a significant debottlenecking project. The increased capacity will allow us to address market demand without relying on lower-margin imports. As we worked to complete the expansion project in the quarter, we increased import volumes to meet market demand.

These imports temporarily impacted margin in the quarter. We expect a recovery in the second half, driven by higher profitability as we ramp up the incremental capacity. On the operations front, higher kiln efficiency, along with lower clinker factor continued to improve across the region. And now I will pass the call to Maher to review our financial development.

Maher Al-Haffar

Thank you, Lucy, and good day to everyone. Free cash flow from operations for the quarter was slightly over $200 million. The variation versus last year is driven mainly by combination of severance payments related to Project Cutting Edge, lower EBITDA, higher investment in working capital and last year's benefit from discontinued operations. This was partially offset by lower taxes and interest expense.

Adjusting for severance payments and discontinued operations, free cash flow in the quarter increased by 3% despite EBITDA performance. Our tax payments are significantly lower due to the payment of the Spanish tax fine in 2024, plus other effects.

While investment in working capital during the first half was higher than last year, the average working capital days declined by 4 days, driven by continued improvement efforts. In line with our normal seasonality, we expect working capital to reverse throughout the rest of the year.

On the cost side, energy costs on a per ton of cement basis declined by 15% in the first half, driven by lower power and fuel prices and a continued improvement in clinker factor and thermal efficiency. Record net income of $1.05 billion for the first 6 months of the year was driven primarily by the sale of our operations in the Dominican Republic and a favorable FX effect.

Given the volatility in the Mexican peso, I would like to remind you of our ongoing Mexican peso hedging strategy, fully covering our operating cash flow from Mexico. This program effectively lowers the volatility of the exchange rate at which we convert pesos into dollars for tenors of up to 2 years.

During the quarter, we replaced the 9.125% of $1 billion subordinated perpetual notes with new 7.2%, $1 billion subordinated perpetual notes issued at a tighter spread than our last 2 perpetual notes. This transaction is not only enhancing our free cash flow by reducing the coupon, but it also marked a successful return to the international capital markets since regaining our investment grade.

Our leverage ratio stood at 2.05x in June, a quarter return higher compared to December. We expect the leverage ratio to decrease during the second half as we improve EBITDA and generate more free cash flow from operations. We have a comfortable debt maturity schedule with no need to access the capital markets and we remain committed to further strengthening our capital structure, as Jaime mentioned in his remarks.

Considering the financial initiatives carried out in the first half, along with current market conditions, we now expect net interest paid, including coupons on subordinated perpetual notes to decline by $125 million in 2025. And now back to you, Jaime.

Jaime Muguiro Domínguez

Thank you, Maher. Considering our year-to-date results as well as progress made under Project Cutting Edge, we expect consolidated EBITDA to be flat versus 2024 with potential upside, subject to evolution of microeconomic conditions in our key markets.

While we are confident in our self-help measures taken to date, we must recognize the volatility and lack of visibility in our main markets. As we go into the back half of the year, if FX rates in our portfolio remains stable at the end of June level, we would see a tailwind of about $60 million in consolidated EBITDA compared to the second half in 2024.

We remain focused on the implementation of our strategic plan, delivering EBITDA savings under Project Cutting Edge, higher free cash flow conversion rate and returns above cost of capital. We will keep you updated as we continue making progress towards these objectives. And now back to you, Lucy.

Louisa Page Rodriguez

Thank you, Jaime. Before we go into our Q&A session, I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements we make today are based on our current knowledge of the markets in which we operate and could change in the future due to a variety of factors. In addition, unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to pricing initiatives, price increases or decreases refer to our prices for our products. And now we will be happy to take your questions.