eBay Inc. (EBAY) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 29, 2025 5:30 PM EDT

Company Participants

John Egbert
Jamie Iannone - CEO, President & Director
Peggy Alford - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Scott Devitt - Wedbush Securities Inc., Research Division
Nikhil Devnani - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Nathaniel Feather - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Deepak Mathivanan - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Andrew Northcutt - Wolfe Research, LLC
Michael Morton - MoffettNathanson LLC
Thomas Champion - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Andrew Boone - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Ygal Arounian - Citigroup Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, everyone. My name is Leila, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome you to the eBay Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to John Egbert, Vice President of Investor Relations.

John Egbert

Good afternoon. Thank you all for joining us for eBay's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Joining me today on the call are Jamie Iannone, our Chief Executive Officer; and Peggy Alford, our Chief Financial Officer.

We're providing a slide presentation to accompany our commentary during the call, which is available through the Investor Relations section of the eBay website at investors.ebayinc.com.

Before we begin, I'll remind you that during this conference call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures related to our performance. You can find a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in our accompanying slide presentation. Additionally, all growth rates noted in our prepared remarks will reflect FX-neutral year-over-year comparisons, and all earnings per share amounts reflect earnings per diluted share unless indicated otherwise.

During this conference call, management will make forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our future performance and expected financial results. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from our forecast for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent periodic reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and our earnings release from earlier today. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of October 29, 2025. We do not intend and undertake no duty to update this information.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jamie.

Jamie Iannone
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, John. Good afternoon, and thank you all for joining us today. I'm pleased to report we delivered better-than-expected results across our key financial metrics in Q3. Our gross merchandise volume grew 8% to $20.1 billion. Revenue increased by over 8% to $2.82 billion, and our non-GAAP earnings per share grew over 14% year-over-year to $1.36. We achieved these strong top and bottom line results amid continued macroeconomic challenges across our international markets and increased headwinds for cross-border trade into the U.S.

Now let's go deeper into the key drivers behind our strong Q3 performance. Focus category GMV growth accelerated to over 15% in Q3, outpacing the remainder of our marketplace by roughly 11 percentage points. This growth was broad-based as all of our focus categories grew positively year-over-year with most accelerating sequentially. Although we expect the level of growth in focus categories to normalize in the near future, our momentum speaks to the level of innovation we've driven for customers and the increased likelihood that enthusiasts consider eBay when shopping in these categories.

Within our focus categories, collectibles was the largest contributor to growth, driven by another quarter of accelerating year-over-year GMV growth in both collectible card games and sports trading cards. Our off-platform marketplaces, TCGplayer and Goldin also saw GMV accelerate sequentially. Pokémon GMV grew in the triple digits year-over-year for the third straight quarter, benefiting from a strong product release cadence. We believe our continued momentum in trading cards is a direct result of the trust and innovation we've driven for hobbyists in recent years with features like My Collection, AI-powered listing tools, authentication and grading, consignment partnerships and integrated PSA population data.

We've added new ways to buy and connect with other enthusiasts through eBay Live. We've also benefited from a consistent drumbeat of activations at major tentpole events like New York Comic Con and the National Card Collectors Convention, where we had our biggest presence ever this year. While we do not expect GMV growth in this category to be linear every quarter, particularly as we face more challenging comps starting in Q4, we are confident in a long runway for secular growth in trading cards.

Motor parts and accessories, or P&A, was our second largest contributor to GMV growth in Q3, generating more than 1 point for the overall marketplace. The introduction of easy and free returns in the U.S. continued to build upon our trusted value proposition in P&A, while the cost and return rates for this program are well within our forecasted ranges. We continue to expand choice and selection in key inventory segments such as salvage and used parts, which help consumers find value at a time when many are stretched financially. Overall, we have over 750 million live P&A listings, which enables us to offer the largest online selection of unique auto parts and accessories in most of our major markets.

Fashion was another notable driver of GMV growth in Q3, led by our luxury, streetwear and preloved apparel focus categories. In Q3, we reinforced our commitment to the circular economy through a collaboration with Marks & Spencer, one of the U.K.'s most iconic retail brands. U.K. consumers can now drop off used clothing at Marks & Spencer stores and give those items a second life through resale on eBay. The program keeps quality fashion in circulation by repairing, cleaning and reselling wearable items and responsibly recycling the rest. We're excited by the potential of this partnership to unlock more preloved clothing on eBay, extend the lifespan of high-quality products and raise awareness of our growing role in driving the circular economy.

In September, we expanded our authenticity guarantee program in the U.K. to cover 70 luxury and premium brands in apparel, shoes and accessories, building upon our existing offerings in sneakers, watches, handbags and fine jewelry. This makes the U.K. our first market where luxury items can be authenticated from head to toe, reducing buyer friction and unlocking more high-value transactions across premium brands.

eBay Live continues to build momentum with consistent quarter-over-quarter growth across every major key performance indicator we track, including viewers, watch time, sold items and GMV. In recent weeks, eBay Live's annual GMV run rate was up approximately 5x year-over-year. We've created more personalized entry points into eBay Live across our homepage, search and view item pages, making it easier for our scaled buyer base to discover and join live shopping events that speak directly to their passions.

In Q3, we hosted some incredible eBay Live shopping events in the U.S. The Backstreet Boys joined Paradise Card Breaks at the eBay Open in Las Vegas. We had Milwaukee Bucks superstar, Giannis Antetokounmpo and his brothers joined Ken, Goldin for a memorable event at the National. Ken also teamed up with Logan Paul for a high-end sports card box break, which drew approximately 20,000 viewers over a multi-hour stream. eBay Live is also gaining strong traction in the U.K. following its formal launch in May at Comic Con London. Since then, we've seen a consistent cadence of exciting live shopping events from a Love Island Charity Auction stream and eBay's Endless Runway event at London Fashion Week to Pokémon weekend and new channels for toys and memorabilia. In September, SharkNinja also hosted our first refurbished appliance sales event with great success. It's exciting to see how quickly eBay Live is building cultural relevance and meaningful engagement with enthusiasts across the U.K.

Overall, we're thrilled by the response we're seeing from sellers and buyers on eBay Live and see significant potential for live commerce to become a strategic growth vector for our marketplace.

Improvements to our consumer-to-consumer or C2C value proposition in key geographies represent another strategic growth vector for our business. One year after we launched our U.K. C2C initiative, we continue to see compelling results. In the first half of 2025, we saw U.K. C2C GMV growth remain well above our prelaunch baseline as we introduced a buyer-facing fee and ramped adoption of our managed shipping program, which streamlines the shipping process, reduces cost and improves trust.

In Q3, we introduced additional C2C changes, including faster payouts for long-tenured sellers, greater transparency into all-in pricing when sellers are listing items and negotiating offers and more competitive terms for items priced below GBP 20. As a result, we saw U.K. customer satisfaction improve notably alongside accelerating year-over-year GMV growth during the quarter.

We recently added shipping support for bulky and heavy items through DHL, and we exited Q3 with the majority of U.K. C2C transactions utilizing our managed shipping program, which is now mandated for all eligible items.

Earlier this month, we closed the acquisition of Tise, a leading social marketplace in the Nordics focused on pre-loved fashion and lifestyle goods. Tise has built a highly engaged Gen Z and millennial community and a strong track record in social community-led commerce. This acquisition strengthens our leadership in the circular economy, increases our presence in the Nordic markets and accelerates our work to make consumer selling more seamless, trusted and scalable. I'm excited to welcome the Tise team to eBay, and I look forward to our teams learning from each other as we drive innovation for fashion enthusiasts and accelerate the circular economy.

Our years of investment in artificial intelligence have enabled us to leverage our scale and three decades of commercially relevant data and insights to transform the eBay experience for customers. In recent years, we've utilized generative AI to dramatically improve the selling experience on eBay through progressive iterations of our magical listing technology. In addition to selling, we've been testing a variety of agentic experiences in search and shopping to learn how buyers and sellers engage with AI at different phases of the customer journey. This includes both on eBay agentic experiences like our AI shopping agent pilot and third-party agents from companies like OpenAI.

Our AI shopping agent has given buyers a new way to shop across our inventory with personalized product picks and expert guidance based on their individual shopping preferences. As the pilot has progressed, we've significantly improved the underlying technology powering the experience. For example, we were able to build hyper-optimized large language models in-house that perform specific shopping agent tasks at lower latency and for significantly reduced cost versus commercial models.

With these learnings and efficiency improvements, we're now poised to gradually bring agentic capabilities into the core of eBay's business through the main search experience over the coming quarters. Our early learnings have also guided the development of our unified agentic commerce platform, which integrates our hybrid cloud infrastructure, large language model ecosystem, our model context protocol server and other agentic protocols with our proprietary data layer.

This platform enables a fully connected experience between eBay agents and generalized third-party agents from companies like OpenAI, which allows us to service the most personalized and relevant products to shoppers in real time based on our 30 years of listings, pricings, transactions and behavior signals. We believe this platform will enable us to deliver more personalized, seamless and trusted experiences for eBay buyers regardless of where they started their shopping journey. With these capabilities now in place, we are well positioned to continue improving the on-eBay experience with agentic tools, touching more of the end-to-end shopping journey, but also connect to compelling third-party agentic experiences.

I'm also excited to see how easy and seamless it is to shop on eBay using the iPhone camera after our recent integration into Apple's visual intelligence feature in iOS 26. Now when a user takes a photo or screenshot of a product they like to shop for online, they can quickly surface relevant listings on eBay, helping more iOS users discover our breadth and depth of unique inventory through an intuitive experience. iPhone users can also take advantage of a great new feature for auctions after we launched live activities functionality on iOS in September, which gives bidders real-time updates directly on their phone's lock screen during the final 10 minutes of an eBay auction. This engaging feature has seen click-through rates more than 4x higher than our standard push notifications for auction listings, helping ensure buyers never miss a chance to bid on their next great eBay find.

Connections between buyers and sellers have always been at the heart of eBay's marketplace. And now we're using AI to make those interactions faster and easier to manage. In Q3, we rolled out an AI assistant for member-to-member messaging across the U.S., U.K. and Australia. This tool takes information from the listing details to provide immediate high-quality suggested answers to buyer inquiries, enabling quicker responses. Sellers have told us this feature has been extremely helpful in answering buyer questions promptly, giving them more time to list items and grow their businesses on eBay.

Within member-to-member messaging, we've also rolled out a fully integrated offers experience directly into the messaging flow for customers in the U.S., Germany and Australia. This means buyers and sellers can now negotiate offers, view their full offer history and execute counter offers without ever leaving the conversation thread, reducing friction and driving improved sales velocity. With each successive quarter, AI is becoming more embedded throughout the eBay experience. As we build on this progress, we believe AI will continue to make eBay simpler, more personal and more connected for every user.

Moving to advertising. In Q3, first-party advertising revenue on the eBay platform grew nearly 23%, driven by broad-based growth across our ads portfolio. Active Promoted Listings comprised nearly 1.2 billion of more than 2.4 billion total listings on eBay, while over 4.4 million sellers adopted at least a single Promoted Listings product during the quarter. Promoted Listings general ads were the largest contributor to the year-over-year ad revenue growth in Q3, followed by PL Priority placements, Promoted Offsite ads and Promoted Stores units.

We continue to leverage our proprietary AI capabilities to enhance advertising performance. For instance, we recently launched a new multimodal embedding model on view item pages to deliver more relevant recommendations to buyers. This model led to a measurable uplift in Promoted Listings revenue by leveraging the listings imagery in addition to its title and other listings details to surface higher-quality recommendations.

In Financial Services, we reached a major milestone for our Seller Capital program in Q3. Since the inception of this program in 2021, more than $1 billion in growth capital has been dispersed to eBay sellers across the U.S., U.K. and Germany through our financing partners, including more than $200 million through the first three quarters of 2025. Many sellers have told us this additional working capital has made a significant difference in their ability to invest in inventory, people and technology to grow their businesses on eBay.

Turning next to our shipping initiatives, which have become a critical strategic imperative in today's increasingly complex environment for cross-border trade. The recent elimination of the de minimis exemption for imports under $800 has created incremental cost and friction for cross-border trade into the U.S. To help our sellers and buyers navigate these challenges, we meaningfully accelerated our multiyear product road map for shipping solutions. In October, we launched eBay International Shipping in Canada, our third largest quarter for U.S. imports after Greater China and Japan. This rollout brings the best parts of the U.S. program to both business and consumer sellers in Canada, along with additional capabilities like delivery duties paid functionality and automated application of country of origin data.

In Q4, we also began enabling business sellers in Germany to access SpeedPAK, an end-to-end cross-border shipping solution offered through a joint venture, which is already available to sellers in Greater China and Japan. SpeedPAK automates customs documentation and tariff calculations, helping sellers manage new trade requirements with greater efficiency. By simplifying compliance and improving delivery time predictability, SpeedPAK strengthens the resilience of cross-border trade on eBay and ensures buyers continue to receive a reliable shopping experience with transparent duties.

As we advance our strategic initiatives, we're equally focused on fostering the culture and talent that makes this progress possible. I'm proud that our dedication to building an inclusive workplace environment continues to be recognized externally. eBay has been named one of Forbes America's Best Employers for Company Culture, one of Time World's Best Companies and one of Newsweek America's Greatest Companies for 2025. These acknowledgments reaffirm our efforts to foster a positive, high-performing culture that attracts and retains some of the best talent in the industry.

In closing, Q3 was another strong quarter for eBay, underscoring the momentum in our strategy and the resilience of our marketplace. Our focused categories continue to drive significant growth for our overall marketplace, driven by continued innovation, trusted experiences and increased selection for enthusiasts worldwide. Our agentic commerce platform opens up entirely new opportunities for eBay by enabling connectivity between on eBay and third-party agents to facilitate personalized conversational shopping experiences that bring eBay's unique inventory and trust to wherever buyers begin their search. AI also continues to make selling on eBay more seamless and efficient from our magical listing technology to our new member-to-member messaging tools that help sellers manage buyer inquiries in real time.

I'm incredibly excited about our expansion of eBay Live into new European markets, which builds upon the tremendous momentum we're seeing in the U.S. as we bring live community-driven commerce to more enthusiasts.

Lastly, our investments in global shipping services are not only helping us support sellers in the current environment, but are accelerating our road map to make cross-border trade more frictionless, which can drive more velocity for consumers and small businesses around the world.

Together, these investments keep eBay well positioned for continued long-term sustainable growth as we reinvent the future of e-commerce for enthusiasts.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Peggy, who will provide more details on our financial performance and outlook. Peggy, over to you.

Peggy Alford
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Jamie. I will begin with the financial highlights of the third quarter. GMV grew 8% to $20.1 billion. Revenue grew over 8% to $2.82 billion. Our non-GAAP operating income grew 9% year-over-year to $764 million. Non-GAAP earnings per share grew over 14% year-over-year to $1.36, and we returned approximately $760 million to shareholders through repurchases and cash dividends.

Let's take a closer look at our financial and operating metrics for the third quarter. GMV grew 8% to $20.1 billion on an FX-neutral basis, accelerating by roughly 4 points sequentially. Our growth in Q3 was primarily attributable to our focus categories and overall strength in the U.S. market, partially offset by a relatively more challenging macro environment internationally and changes to U.S. trade policy, including the elimination of de minimis exemption globally in late August. Foreign exchange provided a tailwind of approximately 180 basis points to spot GMV growth. Focus categories grew over 15% in Q3 with all focus categories contributing to our total growth from collectibles to P&A, luxury, refurbished, apparel and sneakers. In our U.S. market, GMV growth accelerated to nearly 13%, driven by broad-based strength across categories and by increases in both sold items and average selling price.

In addition to overall strength in the U.S. market, our GMV growth continued to benefit from tailwinds like our Klarna partnership and efficiency and lower funnel marketing spend. Because GMV is reported based on the location of the seller, the delta between U.S. and international GMV growth was also influenced by demand shifting toward domestic sellers due to tariffs. International GMV grew nearly 4% on an FX-neutral basis with foreign exchange providing a tailwind of 350 basis points to spot growth. Despite facing relatively more challenging macroeconomic conditions outside of the U.S. in Q3, our international GMV growth also improved sequentially.

Recent enhancements to our C2C value proposition in the U.K. contributed to an overall acceleration in U.K. volume growth. Our cross-border business was resilient in the third quarter. However, we saw a deceleration in year-over-year volume growth starting in September in key markets importing into the U.S. after the removal of the de minimis exemption.

Shifting to our buyer metrics. Our trailing 12-month active buyers were over 134 million in Q3, up 1% year-over-year. Enthusiast buyers remained stable at roughly $16 million, while spend per enthusiast buyer grew year-over-year to over $3,200 on a trailing 12-month basis.

Moving on to our income statement. Revenue grew over 8% to $2.82 billion on an FX-neutral basis in Q3, while foreign exchange was a tailwind of over 120 basis points to spot growth. Our take rate was 14% in Q3 as continued strength in advertising was partially offset by several headwinds. As sellers and buyers adjust to the new trade policies, we are seeing an uptick in returned and canceled orders, which led to a roughly 10 basis point headwind to our Q3 take rate as these transactions are included in GMV, but not revenue. Our average selling price was also increased in recent quarters, mostly driven by category mix shift, which also pressured our take rate. In addition, U.K. C2C represented a modest year-over-year headwind as we continue to scale our managed shipping initiative during Q3. Lastly, foreign exchange was a headwind of nearly 10 basis points to our take rate year-over-year.

Total advertising revenue was $525 million, representing GMV penetration of 2.6%. Within the eBay platform, first-party ads grew nearly 23% to $496 million. We continue to deprecate legacy third-party display ads, which declined by 40% to $7 million. Off-platform ads grew 32%, reaching $22 million.

Non-GAAP gross margin of 71.6% declined by over 80 basis points year-over-year due to expected headwinds from managed shipping, traffic acquisition costs related to promoted off-site ads, depreciation expenses and foreign exchange. These factors were partially offset by tax-related tailwinds as we lapped onetime expenses a year ago and continued cost of payment efficiencies in the quarter. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 27.1%, down 10 basis points year-over-year, including a foreign exchange headwind of 10 basis points.

Marketing and operating efficiencies generated leverage in the quarter, which was partially offset by product development expenses. As we noted last quarter, given the recent strength in our business, we are reinvesting a portion of top line upside in order to accelerate our strategic initiatives, including eBay Live, shipping solutions and vehicles. We are also expanding our global employee footprint in order to optimize our location strategy and to comply with U.S. data transfer policies.

Non-GAAP earnings per share was $1.36, up over 14% year-over-year, and GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations was $1.28, down 1% year-over-year as we lapped investment gains in Q3 of last year.

Turning to our balance sheet and capital allocation. We generated free cash flow of $803 million in Q3 and ended the quarter with cash and non-equity investments of $5.3 billion and gross debt of $6.8 billion on our balance sheet.

Our equity investments were valued at over $900 million. We repurchased $625 million of eBay shares in Q3 at an average price of nearly $88 and paid a quarterly cash dividend of $132 million in September or $0.29 per share.

Moving on to our outlook. For the fourth quarter, we expect GMV between $20.5 billion and $20.9 billion, representing FX-neutral growth between 4% and 6% year-over-year. Based on current exchange rates, we estimate FX would represent roughly 180 basis points of tailwind to spot GMV growth. Our guidance reflects a continuation of the durable growth trends we've observed in recent quarters, driven by our momentum in focused categories and other strategic initiatives.

Additionally, as commodity prices for precious metals have appreciated in recent months, we've observed a notable acceleration in demand for bullion and collectible coins on eBay, which may be a less durable trend. Our acquisition of Tise is also expected to contribute roughly 10 basis points to total FX-neutral GMV growth in Q4. These tailwinds are expected to be offset by a few lapping dynamics. In Q4 of last year, we observed exceptional GMV growth in trading cards due to a strong release calendar. We also saw a double-digit improvement in U.K. C2C volume growth and better-than-expected holiday season demand overall. This year, we will also face a full quarter of impact from the removal of global de minimis exemption versus a single month of impact in Q3. We expect the net of these headwinds to lead to a modest deceleration in GMV growth during Q4.

We forecast revenue to be between $2.83 billion and $2.89 billion, implying FX-neutral growth of 8% to 10% year-over-year. Based on current exchange rates, we estimate FX would represent roughly 190 basis points of tailwind to spot revenue growth. Our guidance implies year-over-year take rate expansion primarily due to our remonetization of U.K. C2C volume and first-party advertising growth, partially offset by mix shift and headwinds related to trade policy.

As I noted for GMV, we expect a full quarter impact from the de minimis change to apply incremental pressure on our core take rate, advertising and financial services monetization. On a sequential basis, take rate is expected to be modestly lower due to these factors as well as normal Q4 seasonality attributable to category and ASP mix over the holidays.

We expect non-GAAP operating margin between 25.8% and 26.3% in Q4, representing non-GAAP operating income growth between 5% and 9% as reported. The year-over-year decrease in operating margin is primarily due to continued investment in our strategic initiatives as we reinvest a portion of our top line strength in order to drive medium- to long-term growth.

We forecast non-GAAP earnings per share between $1.31 and $1.36 in Q4, representing year-over-year growth between 5% and 9%. We expect net interest income to become a headwind to year-over-year earnings growth in Q4 given prevailing interest rates and our lower cash balance. We forecast capital expenditure to be between 4% and 5% of revenue for the full year and our non-GAAP tax rate to remain stable at 16.5%.

We expect reported free cash flow of approximately $1.5 billion for this year, including a headwind of $935 million from the unique tax items we paid this past Q2. On a normalized basis, free cash flow is expected to be roughly $2.5 billion for 2025.

Lastly, we continue to plan on repurchasing approximately $2.5 billion of our shares for the full year. In addition, our Board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.29 per share for the fourth quarter to be paid in December.

Next, I'll share a few preliminary thoughts on 2026. We are planning our business around a third consecutive year of positive FX-neutral GMV and revenue growth, reflecting our confidence in our initiatives and a continuation of the strong underlying momentum from this year. However, we are also mindful of several notable lapping dynamics in 2026. These include exceptionally high growth in trading cards and more recently, in bullion and coins and unexpectedly strong marketing efficiency. In aggregate, we estimate these factors could represent a lapping consideration of approximately 2 points of GMV growth for the full year in 2026.

In addition, we expect to face incremental headwinds from annualizing breakage associated with the global de minimis changes. If the current level of impact remains stable throughout 2026, it would result in a headwind to FX-neutral GMV growth of approximately 1 point. We expect the gap between GMV and revenue growth to be relatively narrow in 2026 as continued healthy growth in first-party advertising revenue is expected to be partially offset by pressure on cross-border sellers and a higher mix of GMV from emerging businesses like Vehicles and eBay Live next year, which have lower average take rates.

With regards to profitability, as we finalize our planning decisions, we'll maintain our focus on targeting the optimal combination of GMV growth and operating margin to maximize operating income dollar growth over the medium to long term. We expect to face a few modest headwinds in 2026 below the operating income line. Our lower cash balance and the expected slope of interest rates would pressure our net interest income year-over-year. And we are reevaluating our non-GAAP tax rate in 2026 and beyond, which may result in a modest increase partially due to the U.S. tax dynamics.

Finally, a few observations on capital allocation. We expect to return approximately $3 billion of cash to shareholders through share repurchases and cash dividends in 2025, which would amount to over $12 billion of capital returns to shareholders from 2022 to 2025. Over the last few years, we were pleased to monetize several equity investments at attractive valuations, including Adevinta, Adyen and Gmarket. These asset sales enabled us to return significantly more capital to shareholders than our normalized free cash flow. Going forward, our framework for capital allocation has not changed. Our priority remains organic investment in the business to drive sustainable growth, and we will continue to evaluate inorganic opportunities to accelerate our road map.

With regard to excess capital, we will continue to lean into returns to shareholders. Given our remaining investment portfolio, we do expect that free cash flow from our core business will be the primary source for capital returns in 2026 and beyond. In a normal year, we plan to target repurchases and cash dividends totaling between 90% to 100% of normalized free cash flow, absent organic or inorganic needs for that capital.

In closing, we believe our strong Q3 results and Q4 guidance reflect the momentum we are seeing in our business. Our strategy is working, and we believe much of our growth is sustainable. We are taking advantage of the strength in our business this year and making incremental investments in focus categories, C2C, eBay Live, shipping, vehicles, Gen AI and other areas, which will help drive balanced top line and bottom line growth over the medium to long term.

With that, Jamie and I will now take your questions.