Indivior PLC (NASDAQ:INDV) Q2 2025 Earnings Conference Call July 31, 2025 8:00 AM ET

Company Participants

Jason Thompson - Vice President of Investor Relations
Joseph J. Ciaffoni - CEO & Director
Patrick A. Barry - Chief Commercial Officer
Ryan Preblick - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Carl Edward Byrnes - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division
Chase Richard Knickerbocker - Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, Research Division
David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Thibault Boutherin - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Yuchen Ding - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Operator

Good day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Indivior Second Quarter 2025 Results Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions] Please note that today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Jason Thompson, your host for today's call. Please go ahead.

Jason Thompson

Thank you, and good morning, and welcome to the Indivior Second Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. I'm joined today by Joe Ciaffoni, Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Barry, Chief Commercial Officer; Christian Heidbreder, Chief Scientific Officer; and Ryan Preblick, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I need to remind everyone that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties and that actual results may differ materially. We list the factors that may cause our results to be materially different here on Slide 2 of this presentation. We also may refer to non-GAAP measures, the reconciliations for which may also be found in the appendix to this presentation that is now posted on our website at indivior.com.

I'll now turn the call over to Joe.

Joseph J. Ciaffoni

Thanks, Jason. Good morning, and thank you, everyone, for joining the call. Today, I will start with an overview of our performance in the quarter and then introduce the Indivior Action Agenda. Pat will discuss the actions we are taking to generate momentum with SUBLOCADE in the U.S. And Ryan will review the financial results for the quarter, along with our upwardly revised financial guidance for 2025. And then we will open up the call for questions.

Since joining the Board in December 2024, being announced as CEO in late February and officially assuming the role on May 8, I've had the opportunity to listen to and learn the perspectives of the Indivior team, treatment providers and investors. Indivior's greatest strengths include the committed professionals that make up the organization and its outstanding products, all of which have the potential to make a positive difference in people's lives. Having participated in more than 150 roundtable meetings with over 1,000 members of the Indivior team, I learned that over 85% of our people have been impacted by OUD or addiction in some way and that this fight is personal to them. This is Indivior's special sauce and what has driven the organization's success and resilience over the years, and this is what will fuel our success moving forward.

Turning to the quarter. I'm pleased to report we delivered record SUBLOCADE net revenue led by a solid performance in the U.S., U.S. SUBOXONE Film in the U.S. outperformed our expectations as pricing remained stable through the second quarter. Our top line performance positions us well for the remainder of the year and enables us to raise our full year 2025 net revenue guidance and our profit expectations is now measured by adjusted EBITDA.

I want to congratulate the Indivior team on a solid performance and importantly, thank them for their unrelenting commitment to making a positive difference in the lives of people living with opioid use disorder in the communities we serve. While we are encouraged by our performance in the quarter, we are not satisfied as U.S. commercial execution represents an opportunity for improvement.

Moving forward, we will be laser-focused on improving commercial execution in the U.S. It will become a hallmark of the organization. 2025 is a transition year for Indivior. We've strengthened our leadership team and refreshed our Board with important additions, including the appointment of Tony Kingsley to the Board, who brings deep commercial experience. You've also seen the announcements of Pat Barry as our new Chief Commercial Officer; and most recently, Vanessa Procter as our new Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs. These key leaders will play critical roles in implementing the Indivior Action Agenda.

Indivior's business is relatively simple with a single product SUBLOCADE driving the majority of growth from a single country. Yet the operations to support the business are complex with an inordinate amount of nonessential activities inflating the cost structure and adversely impacting execution. There is an opportunity to strengthen the company, increase focus, reduce costs and improve execution

through simplification. Over the past couple of months, the management team in partnership with the Board have been developing the Indivior Action Agenda.

The Indivior Action Agenda is a 3-phase multiyear operational road map intended to maximize the potential of our business and make a positive difference in the lives of people living with OUD while creating value for our shareholders. Phase 1 of the Indivior Action Agenda, generate momentum, kicked off in May and runs through the end of 2025. The key focus areas of Phase 1 are growing SUBLOCADE in the U.S. through the remainder of the year by improving commercial execution. Pat will discuss this in more detail. Taking actions to simplify the organization by eliminating all nonessential activities and determining the actions and investments necessary to accelerate long-acting injectable penetration in the U.S. BMAT market and to accelerate SUBLOCADE net revenue growth in 2026 and beyond.

The overarching goal of Phase 1 is to generate operational momentum, and we already have multiple work streams underway. We are diligently working to simplify the organization with a focus on delisting from the London Stock Exchange, assessing the Rest of World business and go-forward operating model, determining the path forward for OPVEE, consolidating our operating footprint and restructuring the R&D and Medical Affairs organizations.

We anticipate making and implementing decisions in these and other areas in the weeks to come. We will establish our go-forward operating model in the fourth quarter with the expectation that we will finish 2025 with momentum and be positioned to accelerate in 2026. We look forward to providing an update on our third quarter results call.

Phase 2 of the Indivior Action Agenda, accelerate kicks off on January 1, 2026. The goal of Phase 2 is to accelerate U.S. SUBLOCADE growth and immediately accelerate profitability and cash flow generation at a rate that exceeds revenue growth. By leveraging our go-forward operating model, we expect to see immediate accretion to the bottom line and improved cash generation. Simultaneously, we will invest to accelerate SUBLOCADE growth in the U.S. in 2026 and beyond.

I am confident that we can make every investment necessary to maximize the potential of SUBLOCADE in the U.S. and drop significant dollars to the bottom line right out of the gate in 2026. Through strong operational execution, we will earn our way to Phase 3 of the Indivior Action Agenda breakout, where we will leverage a stronger financial profile to acquire the next drivers of growth.

Our focus will be on commercial stage acquisitions. We believe, we will be able to enter the breakout phase in the second half of 2026. There is much work to do between now and then, and I want to emphasize that we need to earn our way to Phase 3 through strong execution of Phase 1 and 2 of the Indivior Action Agenda.

To conclude, we are encouraged by, but not satisfied with our start to 2025. We are pleased to be in a position to raise our 2025 guidance, and we have a clear path forward. For the remainder of 2025, we will be working diligently on Phase 1 of the Indivior Action Agenda. We are committed to growing SUBLOCADE in the U.S., simplifying the organization and taking the necessary actions to make sure we are only investing in essential activities.

Our go-forward operating model will be locked down in the fourth quarter of this year as it is imperative that we are ready for Phase 2 accelerate on January 1, 2026. I am confident that we will be able to accelerate SUBLOCADE in the U.S. in 2026 and immediately accelerate the bottom line at an even faster rate.

I will now hand the call over to Pat to discuss the opportunities we see for generating momentum with SUBLOCADE for the remainder of the year.

Patrick A. Barry

Thank you, Joe. We are encouraged by, but not satisfied with the performance of SUBLOCADE in the quarter. We are focused on generating momentum with SUBLOCADE for the remainder of the year by improving commercial execution. Success here will position us for the acceleration phase of the Indivior Action Agenda entering 2026. I have been impressed by the passion our commercial teammates have for OUD patients and the confidence they possess in SUBLOCADE. SUBLOCADE is fundamentally strong and poised for growth. I believe this because SUBLOCADE is the first and #1 prescribed LAI treatment that has been taken by over 350,000 people living with OUD. The breadth of the prescriber base is growing, and the depth is improving.

SUBLOCADE has broad label-aligned access among Medicaid and commercial payers and market research indicates that health care providers have a high intent to increase prescribing and see efficacy as SUBLOCADE's top attribute. These strong fundamentals

translated into solid results in the quarter for SUBLOCADE. Record second quarter net revenue performance for SUBLOCADE was driven by year-over-year dispense growth of 6% versus the prior year and 9% versus the first quarter.

Importantly, during the first half of 2025, market share in the U.S. for SUBLOCADE remained stable at approximately 75% I was also pleased to see in the quarter year-over-year growth in the number of active SUBLOCADE prescribers and those prescribing for 5 or more patients. The 14% increase in the number of active SUBLOCADE prescribers and the 9% increase in 5-plus prescribers are important leading indicators for the SUBLOCADE franchise and represent a solid base from which to grow.

The number of SUBLOCADE patients over the trailing 12 months also grew, increasing 7% year-over-year. Our focus in the second half of the year is delivering on Phase 1 of the Indivior Action Agenda for SUBLOCADE, improving commercial execution to generate momentum. Success will position the commercial team to be able to accelerate SUBLOCADE in 2026.

Our first priority with regards to strengthening commercial execution is sharpening the field force's messaging acumen with higher utilization of SUBLOCADE's core promotional materials on every call. In conjunction with sharpened messaging, we are also improving field force productivity to enable better reach and frequency on health care providers. We are also working on reinforcing SUBLOCADE's treatment benefits with prescribers. This includes driving broad HCP awareness of the updated SUBLOCADE label. These label updates include alternate sites of injection and rapid patient induction. In particular, we believe the ability to accelerate the second dose of SUBLOCADE provides better outcomes for our patients and is among the drivers of increased HCP utilization.

Payer response has been positive with coverage of the new dosing approach reaching approximately 80% of covered lives. We believe these label updates have great potential to demonstrate SUBLOCADE as a fit-for-purpose LAI for today's opioid crisis, which continues to be driven by powerful synthetic opioids. We are also focused on pulling through SUBLOCADE's broad access across Medicaid and commercial payers. The commercial channel represents a large opportunity for patient activation given that SUBLOCADE volume in the commercial channel only represents 25% of the total patient volume. We are confident that this is an area where we can improve.

Related to the opportunity we see in greater commercial patient penetration is ensuring better performance within the specialty pharmacy channel. At present, dispense yield rates within our commercial channel are notably trailing our national average dispense rates. It is critical to address treatment yield to help our patients obtain the treatment they and their HCPs have chosen by improving the efficiency of our overall distribution model to ensure delivery of their chosen treatment to our commercial patients.

We will be working on an account-by-account basis to improve the performance of our distribution network. Finally, we are augmenting our field efforts by investing in omni-channel digital media targeting HCPs. This surround sound opportunity will complement our field force's individual selling efforts. We also believe there is a large opportunity to activate patients through direct- to-consumer efforts.

Recall, SUBLOCADE has an 80% plus prescription pull-through rate after patient request. I'm confident that these table stakes activities will generate momentum in the second half of 2025 and put us in a position to accelerate in 2026. I look forward to updating you on our progress as we move through the remainder of 2025.

I will now turn the call over to Ryan, who will take you through the financial results for the quarter and our upwardly revised guidance for 2025.

Ryan Preblick

Thanks, Pat. Overall, this quarter's financial performance was solid. For the remainder of the year, we are focused on delivering on our financial commitments and implementing Phase 1 of the Indivior Action Agenda to generate momentum. Looking at the second quarter results in more detail, starting with the top line. Total net revenue of $302 million increased 1% versus the prior year. As record SUBLOCADE net revenue offset expected pricing pressure on SUBOXONE Film and the continued wind down of PERSERIS.

Total SUBLOCADE net revenue of $209 million increased 9% versus Q2 2024. On a sequential basis, total SUBLOCADE net revenue increased 19%, reflecting a 9% increase in dispense volume as well as stocking and favorable gross to net dynamics of 5% each. On a dollarized demand basis, total SUBLOCADE net revenue in the second quarter would have been $194 million.

Turning to SUBOXONE Film. We outperformed expectations in the second quarter due to price stability in the U.S., along with a modestly higher-than-expected market share of 14%. SUBOXONE Film net revenue also benefited from favorable gross-to-net dynamics of $10 million. Overall, while pricing has remained relatively stable throughout the first half of 2025, our 2025 financial guidance continues to forecast pricing pressure in the second half of the year. Total non-GAAP operating expenses were $167 million

in the second quarter, up 2% versus the same quarter last year. Selling and marketing expenses in the quarter were higher as expected from increased marketing behind U.S. SUBLOCADE. Non-GAAP G&A expenses were down 7% versus the year ago quarter.

R&D expenses were $21 million in the quarter, a decrease of 20% versus the second quarter of last year. The decrease was due to the reprioritization of pipeline activities to focus solely on our 2 -- Phase 2 OUD assets and the related cost savings. As noted in the press release, we have adopted adjusted EBITDA as our primary profitability measure, replacing non-GAAP operating income. On this basis, adjusted EBITDA was $88 million in the second quarter, which was slightly down versus last year as modestly higher net revenue was more than offset by increased marketing behind U.S. SUBLOCADE.

Touching on the balance sheet. We ended the second quarter with gross cash and investments of $538 million, up from $347 million at year-end. The second quarter benefited by approximately $120 million from the timing of Medicaid rebate invoices, which we expect to unwind in the third quarter. At the end of the second quarter, our adjusted leverage ratio was 1.0, excluding legal settlement obligations.

As we have mentioned, we are committed to maintaining financial flexibility through Phase 1, generate momentum of the Indivior Action Agenda. To best reflect our operations, we are introducing adjusted EBITDA into our 2025 financial guidance as our primary profitability measure. This impacts our non-GAAP operating expense guidance, which will now exclude full year 2025 stock-based compensation expense of approximately $25 million.

Reconciliation from the non-GAAP operating profit guidance we provided on our first call in April to adjusted EBITDA excludes the $25 million in stock-based compensation and our full year 2025 depreciation and amortization expense assumptions of approximately $10 million. Adjusted EBITDA had it been part of our April financial guidance would have been $220 million to $260 million for 2025.

Based on our solid performance in the first half of 2025, we are raising our guidance for the year. Our total net revenue guidance range is increasing to $1.030 billion to $1.080 billion, reflecting the solid year-to-date performance of SUBLOCADE and SUBOXONE Film pricing stability in the U.S.

For SUBLOCADE, we are raising our full year 2025 net revenue guidance to the range of $765 million to $785 million. This represents year-over-year growth of 3% at the midpoint versus full year 2024. We see improving fundamentals for SUBLOCADE and expect to see growth on a demand basis for the remainder of this year. Our gross margin and operating expense expectations are unchanged. We are raising our adjusted EBITDA guidance to $275 million to $300 million, which is an increase of 20% at the midpoint versus our previous expectations.

Lastly, I did want to mention that we now expect our effective corporate tax rate for full year 2025 to be between 19% and 22%. Before concluding, I want to briefly mention corporate updates that further align with our increased U.S. focus. First, effective last week, Indivior canceled its secondary listing on the London Stock Exchange. This action reduces cost and complexity associated with the dual listing. Second, Indivior was added to the U.S. Russell Indexes on June 30, which are well-known benchmarks for U.S. investors.

I'll turn the call back over to Joe for closing remarks.

Joseph J. Ciaffoni

Thanks, Ryan. We are encouraged by our performance in the first half of the year, but we have a lot of work ahead of us to maximize the full potential of Indivior. We are confident we will deliver on our increased financial guidance for this year and be able to update you on the progress against the Indivior Action Agenda on our third quarter call. We will now open the call for questions. Operator?