Kratos Defense & Security Solutions, Inc. (NASDAQ:KTOS) Q2 2025 Earnings Conference Call August 7, 2025 5:00 PM ET

Company Participants

Deanna Hom Lund - Executive VP, CFO & Director
Eric M. DeMarco - CEO, President & Director
Marie C. Mendoza - Senior VP, General Counsel & Secretary

Conference Call Participants

Andre Madrid - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Anthony Valentini - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Colin Michael Canfield - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Jonathan Siegmann - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Joshua Ward Sullivan - The Benchmark Company, LLC, Research Division
Kenneth George Herbert - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Michael Frank Ciarmoli - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Michael Roy Crawford - B. Riley Securities, Inc., Research Division
Peter J. Arment - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Seth Michael Seifman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Sheila Karin Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Trevor James Walsh - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division

Operator

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to Kratos Defense & Security Solutions Second Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the call over to Marie Mendoza, Senior VP, General Counsel. Please go ahead.

Marie C. Mendoza

Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us for the Kratos Defense & Security Solutions Second Quarter 2025 Conference Call. With me today is Eric DeMarco, Kratos' President and Chief Executive Officer; and Deanna Lund, Kratos' Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin the substance of today's call, I'd like everyone to please take note of the safe harbor paragraph that is included at the end of today's press release. This paragraph emphasizes the major uncertainties and risks inherent in the forward-looking statements we will make this afternoon.

Please keep these uncertainties and risks in mind as we discuss future strategic initiatives, potential market opportunities, operational outlook, financial guidance and other forward-looking statements made during today's call. Today's call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures as that term is defined in Regulation G.

Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for financial information presented in compliance with GAAP. Accordingly, at the end of today's press release, we have provided a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.

Eric?

Eric M. DeMarco

Thank you, Marie. The Annual Global Defense and National Security expenditure in 2024 was approximately $2.5 trillion. This $2.5 trillion figure does not take into account the expected increase in the United States National Security spend to over $1 trillion this year or planned NATO increases in its defense expenditures from a historical approximately 2% up to 5% of GDP, and this is also before the recent announcement from non-NATO U.S. allies in the Pacific that they would also be increasing their defense expenditures to 5% of GDP.

There is truly a generational global recapitalization of weapon systems and related infrastructure currently underway, and we believe that Kratos is one of the few qualified today defense technology companies positioned now to address it and take advantage of what is truly an industry inflection point. The Trump Administration through recent Executive Orders is working to streamline the U.S. DoD procurement, purchasing and deployment processes to significantly improve efficiency, make the deployment of new systems and technology to the war fighter faster and prioritize new rapidly developed and fast-to-field hardware and systems.

Additionally, both the Senate through the FORGED Act and the House via the SPEED Act are similarly looking to streamline the defense procurement and acquisition processes, including a focus on first-to-market relevant technology, hardware products and systems. We are also at the beginning of a rebuild of the U.S. defense industrial base, which is [ after feed ] for several decades, which rebuild we believe will require hundreds of billions of dollars of investment and take many years to complete.

Kratos is realizing the positive impact of these factors, including our Q2 organic revenue growth rate of 15%, our bookings with an LTM book-to-bill ratio of 1.2:1, our backlog, our record level bid and proposal pipeline of $13 billion and also our previously communicated 2026 forecast base case organic revenue growth of 13% to 15% over '25, which is now substantially covered by on- hand programs and contracts.

Additionally, after our second quarter ended, we were informed by a government customer that we have been successful on a large new program of record opportunity we call Poseidon, which I do not believe that I have previously mentioned with formal contract award to Kratos as prime expected shortly. Poseidon is expected to be a single award to Kratos.

It's a military-grade hardware and system program with an approximate total potential value through production of approximately $750 million, which should begin ramping for us in mid-'27 once the required program-specific new facility we will be standing up is complete.

The Poseidon win is expected to provide Kratos another large steady-state future revenue, profit and cash flow engine, further enabling our aggressive growth pursuit, including in the drone, hypersonic, jet engine, microwave and SATCOM areas, while also generating profitability and cash flow.

Additionally, Kratos was also informed after the Q2 close that our team with a key Kratos partner has been one of few companies successfully down selected on another new program of record opportunity, Kratos cold named [ DMOS ], with Kratos contract award expected shortly. As a result of these and other expected contract awards, we currently forecast that Kratos' third quarter bookings could be particularly strong.

Since our last report, Kratos' confidence has increased in our 2026 forecast base case margin or EBITDA rate increase of 100 basis points to 150 basis points with additional increases expected in '27 and beyond as new higher-margin programs we have recently received begin to ramp up and certain lower-margin contracts are renewed with the customers at expected higher margin rates.

In Kratos' tactical drone business, it was recently reported that both the U.S. Marine Corps and the Office of the Secretary of Defense stated that the Valkyrie is becoming a program of record and will be the first CCA in production and fielded for the Marines. Additionally, Airbus recently announced that they have partnered with Kratos for a European mission-focused Valkyrie and initially specifically targeting the German Luftwaffe with the current expectation for fielding no later than 2029.

As you know, Kratos' base case financial forecast does not include any assumed tactical drone production, which we will only include in our revenue forecast once we have received a contract award as the potential financial impact to Kratos when we receive tactical drone awards could be very significant.

For example, if in 2026, hypothetically, Kratos receives an initial order for 15 Valkyries at $10 million each, we could have an immediate revenue increase over our base case financial model and forecast of $150 million with profit as the Valkyrie is currently in production and we could have 15 aircraft ready to deliver immediately upon contract award in my example.

Both the Marines and Airbus opportunities were made possible as a result of Kratos making the investment to begin production of 24 Valkyries, several of which have been delivered to customers, as you know, in advance of a program or contract award with approximately 15 to 20 of which can, are or will be completed and available for sale next year.

Kratos made the decision to make the investment and begin serial production of 24 Valkyries ahead of contract award so that Kratos would be first to market and that the potential customers could come to the factory, see their aircraft being built, see the actual cost data for the aircraft, see their aircraft fly. And we believe based on what we expect to occur that this was the correct business decision.

Kratos took the same first-to-market approach of making the internal investment to design and develop certain of our other product offerings, including Erinyes and Dark Fury, our hypersonic flyers, our Zeus 1, Zeus 2 and Oriole solid rocket motor stacks, our family of jet engines for drones and missiles, our OpenSpace C2 and telemetry, tracking control satellite system and many others, each of which are and we believe will be driving Kratos' future growth and value.

In addition to the U.S. Marine Corps and Airbus Valkyrie-related opportunities that have been reported, we have two new additional Valkyrie opportunities with two different customers, both of which I believe Kratos is currently in a sole-source position. As a result of recent Valkyrie-related progress, we have now begun the process of pricing out with our already in place and performing qualified suppliers, the long lead purchasing and the program planning for an expanded production run of at least 24 additional Valkyries, which would sustain and build on the current learning curve from the initial 24 and would bring the total Valkyrie serial production run to 48 aircraft.

Across the potential increased Valkyrie production run, we would be producing several variants including runway independent, combined runway independent runway capable, CTOL, a European-focused variant and potentially two additional variants, all of which are specifically potential customer focused.

By maintaining the Valkyrie production line with a potential additional 25 aircraft, we will continue to improve production efficiencies and reduce cost as we continue to come down the manufacturing learning curve, further establishing Kratos' leadership position with actual aircraft and real known cost points.

I can now also report to you that we expect that by the end of this year, we will receive a sole-source contract for the Kratos Air Wolf tactical jet drone, which could lead to a production contract in late 2026. And I can report that Kratos' Athena tactical drone very recently had multiple successful flights as we continue to progress with this customer-funded program.

Kratos' Ghost Works is currently working on a new fifth-generation jet drone with expected first flight in the first half of '26. And Ghost Works is also working with Kratos Turbine Blade Works and our Rocket Systems Chaos team on a new hypersonic system named Icarus.

Kratos' Israeli-based Microwave Electronics business has successfully completed its move into our new manufacturing facility with less operational downtime than we originally expected, and we are now positioned for further increased organic revenue growth with the expanded capacity, including with our key partners, Rafael, Israeli Aerospace Industries and Elbit.

Kratos' Jet Engine and Propulsion Systems businesses are certain of our strongest revenue growers and highest operating margin businesses with growth expected to accelerate in the second half of '26, including as LRIP quantities of certain drones and missile programs increase with additional revenue increases expected in '27 and then also in '28 as LRIP is expected to transition to full rate production on certain programs.

As you would expect, Kratos' military-grade air defense, missile radar and counter UAS systems business is very strong and is also expected to be a key Kratos base case future organic revenue growth driver, including with our incredible partners, Northrop, Lockheed and Raytheon, each of which innovate, develop and integrate certain of the best weapon systems in the world as is being demonstrated globally in combat.

Kratos' space, training and cyber business is turning around, led by our government and national security offerings with expected 2026 growth and increased profit margins and accelerating into '27 based on programs and the current new opportunity pipeline. The Reconciliation Bill and the Trump Administration's policies, position and support for space and satellite capability has now clearly become both evident and significant, including for national security, which we are seeing in our government satellite business.

Crisply stated, with the Trump Administration's focus on space, including Golden Dome and Kratos' proven expertise in delivering scalable software-defined ground systems, combined with the open architecture approach of OpenSpace, this uniquely positions Kratos to rapidly integrate a diverse set of next-generation satellite constellations and defense capabilities for U.S. government missions.

Kratos' track record of cost-effective agile solutions and deep customer partnerships ensures that Kratos can meet evolving mission requirements faster and more efficiently than other companies in the satellite area. Kratos' space and satellite business, our technology and our capabilities are, in my opinion, they're the gold standard of the industry, and we're seeing that now with Kratos Space being one of the most valuable businesses in our company.

Kratos' Anaconda, our Helios, Nemesis, Hermes and certain other initiatives are tracking, and we hope to be successful on Anaconda and Helios by the end of the year. Kratos' Prometheus partnership with Rafael is on track. Certain key energetics-related production equipment has been ordered. Certain key employees, including the Chief Operating Officer, have now been hired, and we remain optimistic that Prometheus will be a $1 billion-plus business once at full rate production.

Similarly, Kratos' GEK small turbofan initiative with our outstanding partner, GE Aerospace is on track. The GEK production facility location has been identified, as you know, and we expect GEK to also be a $1 billion business once at full rate production.

I want to pass on to our shareholders that we are routinely told by our customers and partners that Kratos' affordability and our approach, technology, military-grade manufacturing facilities, our national security approved execution facilities, products and capabilities are invaluable and basically don't exist in any other defense technology company.

A primary differentiator that we are routinely being told more and more often, including now in Europe, is that Kratos doesn't run around putting out PR, PR, PowerPoints and podcasts saying what we're going to do. At Kratos, we've already done it. For example, Valkyrie has flown with effectively every fighter in the United States inventory. Valkyrie has flown from multiple U.S. sites in multiple scenarios.

Valkyrie, identified by the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Marines as a CCA has collaboratively operated with multiple manned military aircraft and has collaboratively cooperated with multiple Valkyries, not surrogates, not computer models, not pretty pictures, actual Valkyrie systems. All of these flights and events have occurred in coordination and cooperation with our military customers.

Valkyrie exists, is flying and has been flying since 2019. The Valkyrie is real. This is why Airbus partnered with Kratos. Airbus wants to work with the company that has real flying products and aircraft that have flown with the F-35, for example, and flown with the F-32 -- excuse me, the F-22, not just promises. I find it interesting that other companies are routinely making claims of what their systems will be and capabilities it will have.

I consistently tell you on these calls what we have done, what we're going to do, we do it, what our systems are, our actual successful missions and our specific customers. We believe that these are key reasons why Kratos is seeing increased program opportunities, bid pipeline, partnership opportunities and sole source positioning, all of which we expect to continue and potentially accelerate as national security and defense prioritization increases.

At Kratos, we recognize the scarcity value of our company, including for United States National Security and to our stakeholders. And we are laser-focused on execution and rebuilding the U.S. industrial base while generating value for our stockholders.

Deanna?

Deanna Hom Lund

Thank you, Eric. Good afternoon. As we have included a detailed summary of the second quarter financial performance as well as the initial third quarter and modifications to full year 2025 financial guidance in the press release we published earlier today, I will focus on the highlights in my remarks today.

Revenues for the third -- sorry, second quarter were $351.5 million, above our estimated range of $300 million to $310 million, with overachievement of forecasted revenues across all of our businesses with the most notable growth in our defense rocket support due in part to the timing of hypersonic missions and in our C5ISR businesses with organic revenue growth rates of 116.6% and 25.4%, respectively.

Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of '25 was $28.3 million, also above our estimated range of $21 million to $25 million, reflecting the increased volume, offset partially by continued increase of contractor and material costs on certain multiyear firm fixed price contracts in our Unmanned Systems business and a less favorable mix in our Space, Training and Cyber business.

Unmanned Systems second quarter '25 revenue was down $12.6 million due to the prior year comparable, including $17.4 million from the shipment of an international target drone delivery, offset partially by increased tactical drone-related revenues. KGS second quarter ' 25 revenue was up $64 million year-over-year from the second quarter of '24 with organic revenue growth of 27.1%, excluding the impact of the February 2025 acquisition of certain assets of Norden Millimeter.

Second quarter '25 cash flow used in operations was $10.6 million, primarily reflecting the working capital requirements related to the revenue growth impacting our receivables by approximately $36 million, increases in inventory and other assets of over $18 million, primarily reflecting increases in our microwave electronics and rocket systems businesses, which related to anticipated future deliveries and ramps in production as well as investments we are making related to certain development initiatives in our Unmanned Systems business.

Free cash flow used in operations for the second quarter of '25 was $31.1 million after reflecting funding of $20.5 million of capital expenditures. As we planned, we are continuing to make investments to expand and build out certain of our manufacturing and production facilities in our microwave products, rocket system and hypersonic businesses to meet existing and anticipated customer orders and requirements and investing in related new machinery, equipment and systems.

Consolidated DSOs or days sales outstanding decreased from 104 days in the first quarter to 103 days at the end of the second quarter, reflecting the revenue growth and the timing of milestone billings. Our contract mix for the second quarter of '25 was 65% fixed price, 31% cost plus and 4% time and material.

Revenues generated from contracts with the U.S. government during the second quarter were approximately 71%, including revenues generated from contracts with the DoD, non-DoD federal government agencies and FMS contracts. In the second quarter of '25, we generated 12% of revenues from commercial customers and 17% from foreign customers.

An operational priority remains the hiring and retention of skilled technical labor across the company with total Kratos headcount of 4,316 at the end of the second quarter as compared to 4,226 at the end of the first quarter. Now moving on to financial guidance. The guidance we provided today includes our expectations and assumptions for our supply chain's execution and for employee sourcing, hiring, retention and the related cost.

We have increased our full year '25 revenue guidance from $1.26 billion to $1.285 billion to $1.290 billion to $1.310 billion, reflecting an organic revenue growth rate of 11% to 13% over 2024 and increased our adjusted EBITDA guidance from $112 million to $118 million to $114 million to $120 million. Our third quarter revenue guidance of $315 million to $325 million reflects an estimated organic growth rate of 12% to 15% over 2024.

Our guidance continues to include the impact of increased material and subcontractor costs on certain of our multiyear fixed price contracts, specifically in our Unmanned Systems target drone business, where we have experienced cost growth from certain ancillary materials on our targets and for which we are unable to seek recovery from the customer until the renewal of future production loss contracts occurs.

We are continuing to aggressively manage costs where we can minimize the impact to our margins. Our forecasted second half of the year ranges include the sale of certain products that are completed and ready to be delivered once we receive certain government approvals. Out of an abundance of caution, we have not included the contribution from these expected revenues and the related profits until the fourth quarter.

If the necessary government approvals are received earlier, it is possible these contributions could be made in the third quarter. Since quarter end, we have paid off our entire term loan balance of approximately $180 million. Therefore, any interest expense should be minimal in the second half of 2025. Our $200 million revolving line of credit remains undrawn except for approximately $10 million of letters of credit outstanding and available to the company.

Eric?

Eric M. DeMarco

Thank you, Deanna. We'll turn it over to the moderator now for questions.