On Holding AG (NYSE:ONON) Q2 2025 Earnings Conference Call August 12, 2025 8:00 AM ET

Company Participants

David Allemann - Co-Founder & Executive Co-Chairman
Liv Radlinger - Corporate Participant
Martin Hoffmann - CEO & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Anna A. Andreeva - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Aubrey Leland Tianello - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division
Cristina Fernández - Telsey Advisory Group LLC
Jay Daniel Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
John David Kernan - TD Cowen, Research Division
Michael Charles Binetti - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division

Operator

Thank you for standing by. My name is Kate, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to On Holding AG Q2 2025 results. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Liv Radlinger, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Liv Radlinger

Good afternoon, and good morning to our investor community. Thank you for joining On's 2025 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. With me today on the call are On's Executive Co-Chairman and Co-Founder, David Allemann; and CEO and CFO, Martin Hoffmann. Before we begin, I will briefly remind everyone that today's call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations and beliefs only and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please refer to our annual report on Form 20-F for the 2024 fiscal year filed with the SEC on the 4th of March 2025 for a detailed discussion of such risks and uncertainties.

We will further reference certain non-IFRS financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin. These measures are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information presented in accordance with IFRS accounting standards. Please refer to today's release for a reconciliation to the most comparable IFRS measures. We will begin with David, followed by Martin leading through today's prepared remarks, after which we are looking forward to opening the call for a Q&A session. With that, I'm very happy to turn the call over to David.

David Allemann

A very warm welcome to our second quarter 2025 results call. We hope you are having an enjoyable summer. This past quarter, our story of growth continued with incredible momentum. Our results show that what we are building is robust and truly transformative. We grew net sales by 38% on a constant currency basis to a record of CHF 749.2 million, beating our expectations. But this wasn't just about growth, it was about our premium positioning, which drove further expansion in our gross profit margin to 61.5% and our adjusted EBITDA margin to 18.2%.

What I'm most proud of is that this momentum was broad-based. We saw strength across every region, channel and product category. This broad-based resilience is the very definition of the athlete spirit in our business, setting the stage for long-term growth. The strong numbers we just reported are a direct reflection of something deeper. Today, I want to talk about one of the core values at On, the athlete spirit. This spirit is all about resilience and balance. It's about waking up ready to trade regardless of whether we won or lost yesterday. It's about playing the long game, not chasing a fast win.

We're building resilience everywhere in our product portfolio and our channel mix in the strength of our global footprint and fan base and in our founder-led leadership. It's building our future for years to come. For me, everything starts with the product. What truly excites me is that we are not just creating footwear, we're building iconic franchises. Today, we have 9 distinct footwear franchises, each contributing more than 5% to our top line. That kind of balance isn't an accident, it's the result of a years-long focused strategy to build resilience into our portfolio.

We're building iconic franchises like the Cloudsurfer and Cloudmonster, and we're also seeing fresh momentum with the newly launched Cloud 6. These are product brands in their own right. But our vision goes far beyond footwear. Our apparel business is expanding very fast and with it, our relevance as a full sportswear brand. We recently previewed our Spring/Summer '26 collection during Paris Fashion Week and launched new apparel with Zendaya which will further elevate awareness. What connects footwear and apparel is On's strive in technological innovation and our roots in Swiss engineering and design.

This allows us to show up toe-to-head connected with a broader audience and build a truly resilient portfolio. But our product resilience is about more than just footwear and apparel. It's our commitment to win in multiple sports. We started in running, but we successfully expanded to trail outdoor tennis and training, moving us closer to our vision of being the most premium holistic sportswear brand. For example, fans saw Iga Swiatek win an incredible Wimbledon final a few weeks ago, and Ben Shelton capture his first Masters 1000 title at the 2025 Canadian Open, climbing to World #6.

And now fans can wear the styles of these athletes, both on and off the tennis court or they can shine in the training capsule collection we just launched with FKA twigs. While On is fundamentally a sports brand, the cultural shift towards sport as the new uniform and

fashion means we're also a lifestyle brand, unlocking a much larger addressable market. Our hugely successful collaboration with LOEWE on the Cloudtilt, which sold out almost entirely within days, retailing at USD 590 perfectly illustrates this intersection. The seed for the most premium global multi-sports brand is planted.

The result of all this is what we call consumer resilience. What we're seeing is that we are no longer just for early adopters. We are now resonating with a much wider audience from established runners to the very young. Our brand strength is over-indexing with Gen Z consumers. In the U.S., we have previously shared that awareness has more than doubled in a single year, making On one of the top wanted athletic shoe brands among teens. They love the Soft Wins campaign with Elmo for the Cloudsurfer. We're also seeing this broad appeal powered by diverse sports and franchises like the Cloud, which has grown from a running shoe into an everyday essential.

For us, it feels like we've reached a tipping point. We are converting broad communities who are buying On's premium sports products again and again. Our channel strategy is another dimension of resilience and balance. Wholesale remains a vital channel, and we're incredibly successful with over 11,000 doors globally from the biggest players to local running specialty. At the same time, our direct- to-consumer business, both online and in physical retail is a key highlight with a particularly strong performance. We now operate 54 On stores worldwide, and these aren't just places to transact. They are spatial experiences where product, brand, community and storytelling come together.

With robust productivity growth in existing on retail doors, we are confident to scale on retail to create further balance between On wholesale and DTC channels. Next up are high-profile openings in Palo Alto, Stockholm and Salem. This global footprint has been a priority for us since the very beginning. As founders of a young Swiss brand from a small home market, what do you do? We went to Europe in our first year, to the U.S. in our second and to Asia, to Japan in our third. That global mindset has led to a significant business in the world's most important sports market, the U.S., where we continue to see strong growth. At the same time, we are seeing rapid demand acceleration in Europe with France, Italy and Spain showing lots of untapped potential for On.

And the continued triple-digit growth in Asia as a whole is nothing short of amazing, including new expansions for our brand into Singapore and Thailand. All of this is leading to a beautifully balanced global portfolio. We are bringing this global mindset to manufacturing and supply, and it's this focus that recently earned us a major recognition. Fast Company named On one of the world's 50 most innovative companies of 2025, thanks to our LightSpray technology. This ultralight operates sprayed, not built in a one-step process, automated by a robotic arm in just 3 minutes.

A few weeks ago, we launched our first LightSpray factory in Zurich with 4 robotic arms. It's a path to the future of manufacturing, faster, less labor-intensive in various locations with a much simpler supply chain that's closer to consumer demand. It's all about the long game and a company that is innovating On product manufacturing beyond the product itself. Our financial profile mirrors our vision to be the most premium global sportswear brand and enables us to build for the long term. Powerful top line growth and our premium positioning mean we can consistently invest in important multiyear projects, striking a balance between near-term success and long-term growth drivers.

Our ambition of constant innovation means we dedicate significant time and financial investment into projects like LightSpray, knowing they will only fully unfold over several years and require consistent focus and patience. As I noted earlier, it's these long- term commitments that support and strengthen our resilience. It's a virtuous circle. Our leadership philosophy builds a company that is here to stay for the very long time. As a founder-led business, Casper, Olivier and myself, with Martin as CEO, operate together with our senior leadership team like athletes in a team sport.

We sometimes lose together and we often win together. We have the bandwidth to play both defense and offense at the same time. And we give each other very direct feedback once in the locker room after the game. Our deep bench of talent is the ultimate source of our resilience. We hire for an exceptional balance, the right mindset aligned with the 5 spirits of On, combined with a unique skill set. Our diverse team comprises over 100 different nationalities, operates from 15 global locations and attracts 200,000 job applications a year, all in pursuit of finding exceptional talent.

This deep bench of talent and our global structure bring in critical perspectives from around the world to ensure we build a global brand with local sensibility. Our mission, Dream On, speaks to the growth mindset at On. We dream daring dreams that create resilience, balance and opportunity now and in the future because we firmly believe the best days are ahead of On. We could not be more excited that Time Magazine sees it the same way. And in June this year, named On one of the 100 most influential companies globally. You just heard me share my excitement for the long game vision of On, but the vision is only as strong as its execution.

It's my great pleasure to now hand the baton over to my partner and our CEO, Martin, to walk you through the details of a quarter that proves our vision is becoming a reality. So Martin, please.

Martin Hoffmann

Thank you, David, and hello from my side as well. The athlete spirit is the core of our culture, and I'm incredibly proud of the passion and unwavering focus our team and partners have shown over the last 6 months. We are 1.5 years into our 3-year strategic plan, and we are running far ahead of our expectations. For the next 1.5 years, we have more confidence than ever in the impact of our growth pillars on our products, customer experiences and ultimately, our financial results. And at the same time, the strategic clarity allows us to Dream On to dream even bigger and even further to lay the foundation, to bring our mission and vision to life at an even bigger scale, to invest time and resources to work on new initiatives, products and exciting projects that will expand our addressable market in the future as well as our abilities to elevate the premium experience for our customers.

The incredible work of our team is evident everywhere. But what truly stands out to me is our brand momentum across communities, the power of our distribution and the rapid growth of our apparel business. Running remains the foundation of our brand, and it's where our credibility is rooted. In recent months, our proprietary brand tracker has shown a significant increase in our connection with runners and our performance credibility. We also grew overall brand awareness faster than any other brand in our category. This momentum will carry forward with the launch of the Cloudboom Max next week. It's our first super shoe built for the everyday runner and many on team members, including myself, will be wearing it in our fall marathons.

This brand heat is spreading. We are seeing great traction in tennis apparel and the new Cloudultra Pro and Cloudultra 3 are strengthening our connection with dedicated trail runners. What's truly unique is how we are reinforcing our position at the intersection of sport and lifestyle. Our brand record shows we are the only brand growing our connection with both performance and lifestyle simultaneously, a rare position to be in that speaks to the strength and versatility of the own brand. This is also evident in our outsized growth with the 18- to 34-year-old segment. The momentum in our products comes to life through our multichannel distribution strategy.

Over the last few months, I've had the opportunity to spend time with many of our global key account partners. In every conversation, I felt the incredible motivation and commitment to grow the brand together, including an offering elevated even more premium customer experiences. Nowhere is our commitment to premium experiences more evident than in our retail network. And its exceptional growth driven by both improvements in productivity as well as space expansion, demonstrates the strength and resonance of this position.

Three weeks ago, I had the pleasure of joining the opening of our first retail store in Singapore, a large and beautifully designed store at the Jewel Changi Airport Mall. The store delivered close to the highest daily sales across our global retail fleet during its opening weekend. The largest transformation since our Investor Day has happened in our apparel business. The passion within our team to build On as a toe-to-head sportswear brand is leaving visible marks across the whole organization. In the first half of this year, we sold more apparel items than one of our most successful footwear franchises, the Cloudtilt.

Our retail momentum and the growing number of dedicated shop-in-shop executions are supporting our significant growth in apparel across all our regions, and we remain focused on taking our offer to the next level. Overall, we are building a foundation that is stronger than ever. We achieved close to CHF 1.5 billion in net sales in the first half of 2025, which is a 39% increase year-over- year on a constant currency basis. In fact, both Q1 and Q2 of 2025 had higher absolute net sales than the entirety of our first year as a public company, a reminder of just how far we have come in an incredibly short period of time.

As David and I have both said, our team and our culture are the ultimate source of our success and resilience. We are thrilled to have our new Chief Human Resource Officer, Katarina Berg, join us to continue building that culture. With that, let's have a closer look at Q2. It was another record quarter on both net sales and adjusted EBITDA. Net sales reached CHF 749.2 million, up 32% year-over-year on a reported basis and 38.2% on a constant currency basis. Our DTC channel delivered another exceptional quarter, demonstrating incredible momentum. Net sales reached CHF 308.3 million, up an outstanding 54.3% year-over-year at constant currency and 47.2% on a reported basis.

This very strong growth elevated our DTC mix to a new second quarter high of 41.1% of sales. Crucially, this reflects strength in both e-commerce and retail, which are continuing to work together to boost our global brand awareness and customer engagement. The strength in e-commerce was particularly evident with accelerated growth in both EMEA and the Americas, while our APAC region continued to deliver results that significantly exceeded expectations. In retail, our flagship stores remain key in driving this success. Our Paris, Champs-Élysées, store continues its strong growth a year after opening. And our LA Abbot Kinney store saw the highest year-over-year growth in the Americas, powered by strong community engagement.

As LA prepares to host the 2028 Olympics, we are strategically increasing our brand exposure to capture the city's rising buzz and excitement. Meanwhile, our wholesale channel also saw strong growth in Q2, reflecting the strong demand across all regions, while we maintain our focus on a slow and controlled store rollout. Net sales were up 28.8% year-over-year at constant exchange rates and up 23.1% on a reported basis, reaching CHF 441 million. We continue to build and scale relationships with premium distributor partners in select markets. The store we opened in Singapore with one of these partners marks a significant milestone, and we are excited to explore new markets in Southeast Asia and in the Middle East through this channel in the coming quarters.

Now let me take you through the development by region, demonstrating our global momentum. Starting with EMEA, which delivered a very strong quarter with net sales growing by an outstanding 46.1% year-over-year on a constant currency basis and by 42.9% on a reported basis to CHF 197.8 million. This is the strongest growth rate we have seen in the region in the past 2 years, confirming the strategic decisions we took to elevate our brand perception. We're seeing this accelerated growth across both newer markets like France and Italy and established ones with the U.K. being a particular highlight, delivering extremely strong growth rates on an increasingly large sales base.

Moving on to the Americas. Net sales grew strongly by 23.6% on a constant currency basis and by 16.8% on a reported basis to CHF 432.3 million. As a result of the ongoing strong demand for the brand and our significantly improved operational capabilities, our DTC channel materially outperformed in Q2. Selling into our wholesale partners were at a slower pace, given timing of product launches, but sell-out rates with our key account partners reflected the same strong demand we saw with our -- in our DTC channel.

And last, but absolutely no means least, the APAC region, which continues to materially outpace our expectations, delivering the third successive fifth quarter of triple-digit growth and now accounting for a mid-teens percentage of our net sales. On a constant currency basis, net sales were up 110.9% year-over-year in Q2, translating to 101.3% reported growth and absolute net sales of CHF 119.2 million. In all markets, the demand for our products is outpacing supply. In Greater China, net sales more than doubled, driven by more than 50% same-store growth in our own retail stores, even higher growth rates in our e-com channels and the addition of powerful new retail stores. Our flagship store in Chengdu outperforms our expectations on all key retail metrics and will serve as a blueprint for our future retail expansion in this market.

Turning to our product categories. Our growth is strong and broad-based. Net sales from shoes grew 36% at constant exchange rates. On a reported basis, net sales were up 29.9% year-over-year, reaching CHF 704.9 million. This growth is a direct result of our ability to build a portfolio of strong franchise. In Q2, we saw strong demand across both our performance and lifestyle portfolios. In performance, running, tennis and outdoor grew strongly with the strongest growth in the Cloudsurfer and Cloudmonster. Our key lifestyle franchises, particularly the Cloud, Cloudtilt and Cloudzone are resonating deeply with consumers, additionally amplified by our campaigns with Zendaya.

Our apparel business delivered an outstanding quarter with net sales growing an impressive 75.5% at constant exchange rates and 67.5% on a reported basis to CHF 36.7 million. We're particularly encouraged by the deepening consumer engagement in this category. We are seeing a healthy year-over-year increase in repeat transactions. And importantly, also first- and second-time buyers are increasingly adding apparel to their basket. This is a key indicator of our success in building a full sportswear brand and driving apparel adoption earlier in the customer journey.

Moving down the P&L. Our gross profit margin increased by 160 basis points year-over-year to 61.5%, validating again the strength of the premium position of the brand. The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by the high DTC share, lower freight expenses as well as a net foreign exchange tailwind from the further depreciation of the U.S. dollar during the quarter. We implemented selective price increases in the U.S. in early July, so these did not have any effect on our Q2 profitability. SG&A expenses, excluding share-based compensation, were very well controlled, accounting for 47.7% of net sales in Q2, down from 48.6% in the same period last year.

We continue to invest heavily in key growth areas, including our stores, LightSpray and strengthening our IT and tech capabilities. At the same time, we saw ongoing benefits from operational efficiencies, particularly in distribution costs, which we now expect to continue throughout the rest of the year. As a result of our very strong top line, gross profit margin expansion and controlled investments into growth, we are thrilled to report an adjusted EBITDA of CHF 136.1 million, translating to an 18.2% adjusted EBITDA margin, up 220 basis points year-over-year.

While our very strong operational performance drove substantial adjusted EBITDA growth, the continuous weakness of the U.S. dollar versus Swiss franc in the second quarter, closing near multi-decade lows at 0.79 led to a meaningful unrealized foreign exchange impact in our net financial results, which resulted in a net loss of CHF 40.9 million. As highlighted in the past, this effect is mainly driven by the valuation of our U.S. dollar-based assets, especially cash and cash equivalents at quarter end exchange rates and does not impact or reflect the financial health of our business.

Moving on to our balance sheet. Capital expenditures were CHF 17.4 million in the quarter. This equates to 2.3% of net sales, down from 3% in Q2 last year. During the last 1.5 years, we made significant investments into the strength of our operational backbone and into inventory management. As a result, we continue to see ongoing improvements of our net working capital position, our cash conversion cycle and the health of our inventory without limiting our ability to fulfill the strong demand from our customers. Our overall inventory balance stood at CHF 360.4 million at the end of the quarter. We ended the quarter with a cash balance of CHF 846.6 million, down from CHF 871.8 million in the prior quarter.

Over 70% of this position was held in U.S. dollar, which was impacted by the before-mentioned valuation at quarter end exchange rates, leading to this reduction despite the positive operational cash flow. As we enter into the second half of 2025, we do so with exceptional brand momentum, deep confidence in our strategy and conviction in our ability to perform at the highest level. The results we achieved in the first half are not only ahead of plan, they are a clear reflection of the strength of our brand, the quality of our execution and the scale of the opportunity ahead. The products we have launched over the past couple of weeks and the pipeline ahead is strong.

From performance running to trail training, tennis, lifestyle and apparel, we are bringing bold innovation and a lot of brand energy in every vertical and category. These launches will be supported by integrated campaigns and high-impact retail moments designed to amplify our presence and drive strong growth across all markets. Over the next couple of weeks, we look forward to exciting LightSpray activations at the World Athletic Championships in Tokyo, building further on our collaborations with Zendaya and FKA twigs and taking our training and tennis visibility to the next level.

We will continue to drive momentum with the running community and elevate our position at races around the world powered by our recent launches. Considering our strong performance in Q2, continued powerful momentum in the first weeks of Q3, a strong order book for the fall/winter season and the continued efficiency tailwinds driven by our focus and commitment to operational excellence, we are increasing our 2025 guidance across all line items with high expectations for net sales growth, gross profit margin and adjusted EBITDA margin. We expect net sales at constant currency rates to be up at least 31% year-over-year, ahead of our previous guidance of at least 28%.

Importantly, this reflects our strong performance in Q2 as well as our increased second half expectations, given increased confidence in the outlook and the ongoing powerful momentum in Q3. Within this guidance, we still embed prudence to reflect the uncertain macroeconomic outlook in the second half of the year. Given the ongoing devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the Swiss franc, the second half of the year is expected to face ongoing foreign exchange headwinds. Current spot rates, our constant currency growth guidance implies reported net sales reach at least CHF 2.91 billion, higher than our previous guidance of CHF 2.86 billion.

Alongside the increased net sales outlook, we now expect a gross profit margin of 60.5% to 61%, ahead of our previous guidance of 60% to 60.5%. The strong momentum in the first half of 2025, the expected continued strength of our DTC channel, combined with a focus on full price sales, continued operational efficiencies driven by our focus on excellence, favorable freight cost evolutions and positive foreign exchange rates are expected to substantiate a gross profit margin 60% plus for the second half of the year, in line with our longer-term gross profit margin target.

This increased outlook already includes the impact of a 20% incremental tariff on imports to the U.S. from Vietnam than the 10% assumed in our previous guidance. As we had outlined in May, we are focused on what we can control and continue to build our company towards our vision to be the most premium global sportswear brand. This means delivering on our brand promise to our fans, while ensuring we continuously invest into what differentiates us in the long term, highest quality standards, cutting-edge innovation, premium customer experiences and service, sustainability and social impact.

Our increased outlook on net sales and gross profit margin enables us to accelerate strategic investments in future growth, particularly in marketing, innovation projects and technology. At the same time, we continue to drive efficiencies across our operating expenses. Reflecting these dynamics, we now expect an adjusted EBITDA margin of 17% to 17.5% ahead of our previous guidance of 16.5% to 17.5%.

To close, I want to share a personal highlight of the summer and the moment we won't forget anytime soon, watching Iga Swiatek's historic Wimbledon win. Her performance, a master class and focus, consistency and resilience was a true reflection of the athlete spirit. With this victory, she now holds Grand Slam titles on all 3 surfaces, a testament to her versatility and grit. In many ways, her journey embodies the very spirit that also is the driving force for us, relentless focus and courage to push boundaries without compromising our identity, allowing us to compete and win at the highest level. With that, David and I would like to open up the session to your questions.