Runway Growth Finance Corp. (NASDAQ:RWAY) Q2 2025 Earnings Conference Call August 7, 2025 5:00 PM ET

Company Participants

David R. Spreng - Founder, President, CEO & Director
Greg Greifeld - Chief Investment Officer
Quinlan Abel - Assistant Vice President of Investor Relations
Thomas B. Raterman - CFO, COO, Secretary & Treasurer

Conference Call Participants

Casey Jay Alexander - Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division
Cory Johnson - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Erik Edward Zwick - Lucid Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division
Melissa Wedel - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Mickey Max Schleien - Clear Street LLC
Sean-Paul Aaron Adams - B. Riley Securities, Inc., Research Division

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Runway Growth Finance Second Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would like now to hand the conference over to Quinlan Abel, Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Quinlan Abel

Thank you, operator. Good evening, everyone, and welcome to the Runway Growth Finance Conference Call for the quarter ended June 30, 2025. Joining us on the call today from Runway Growth Finance are David Spreng, Chief Executive Officer; Greg Greifeld, Chief Investment Officer of Runway Growth Capital LLC, our investment adviser; and Tom Raterman, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.

Runway Growth Finance's second quarter 2025 financial results were released just after today's market close and can be accessed from Runway Growth Finance's Investor Relations website at investors.runwaygrowth.com. We have arranged for a replay of the call to be available on the Runway Growth Finance web page.

During this call, I want to remind you that we may make forward-looking statements based on current expectations. The statements on this call that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, market conditions caused by uncertainties surrounding interest rates, changing economic conditions and other factors we identify in our filings with the SEC.

Although we believe that the assumptions on which these forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of those assumptions can prove to be inaccurate, and as a result, the forward-looking statements based on those assumptions can be incorrect. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained on this call are made as of the date hereof, and Runway Growth Finance assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements or subsequent events. To obtain copies of SEC-related filings, please visit our website.

With that, I will turn the call over to David.

David R. Spreng

Thank you, Quinlan, and thanks, everyone, for joining us this evening to discuss our second quarter 2025 financial results. Today, I'll discuss our second quarter financial highlights, reflect on the first half of the year operationally and share our outlook for the remainder of 2025. Then Greg will provide an update on the venture landscape. And to conclude, Tom will dive deeper into our financial performance.

For the second quarter, Runway delivered total investment income of $35.1 million and net investment income of $13.9 million. The second quarter posed economic uncertainty due to evolving tariff policy and the potential knock-on effect to our portfolio companies. Overall, the BDC sector proved resilient, and we believe our portfolio has demonstrated its ability to perform throughout all economic cycles. Amidst this macro backdrop, our focus has continued to be on driving shareholder value through our enhanced positioning as part of the BC Partners credit platform. This focus has been pivotal as we navigate the current venture debt environment and continue to be the best partner possible for our underlying portfolio investments.

As part of the BC Partners platform, Runway is benefiting from broadened origination channels and an expanded set of financing solutions that we have already put into action in the second quarter. Our integration within the BC Partners ecosystem empowers Runway Growth Capital at the firm level to continue to make our target investments between $30 million and $150 million overall. That said, our ability to partner with BC partners on these deals increases our optionality and allows us to allocate the right investment size to our BDC. We believe our sweet spot is a check size between $20 million and $45 million for the BDC.

Overall, these strategic imperatives allow us to focus on 3 main objectives: first, to further optimize our portfolio through diversification of investment size; second, to expand the financing solutions we offer; and third, to maximize our existing commitments through consistent monitoring and diligent risk mitigation. With these pillars in place, we are confident in our ability

to move opportunistically when new investments that meet our high credit bar are sourced. We can be nimble in our execution while leveraging the backing of BC Partners fully scaled $9 billion credit platform.

Our second quarter investment activity demonstrates our ability to execute against our portfolio optimization initiatives while continuing to maximize our existing portfolio. In the second quarter, we executed on 3 investments in new and existing portfolio companies across the high-growth verticals of technology, health care and select consumer sectors, representing $37.8 million in funded loans. We completed a $40 million commitment in Autobooks, an accounting and bookkeeping solution funding $27 million at close. During the quarter, we also completed a new $20 million commitment in Swing Education, an online marketplace that connects schools with qualified substitute teachers, funding $8 million at close. $10 million of this commitment to Swing Education is a revolving line of credit, further reflecting the expanded solutions upon which we are executing.

Finally, we completed a $2.8 million commitment in our existing portfolio company, Marley Spoon. Subsequent to quarter end, we announced a new $10 million co-investment with BC Partners in Federal Hearings and Appeal Services, or FHAS, funding $7.5 million at close. FHAS is a trusted national leader in providing business processing and outsourcing services to federal and state government agencies.

Additionally, last week, we made a new $10 million investment in DigiCert, Inc., funding $9.2 million at close. DigiCert is a leader in offering high assurance digital certificates, certificate management solutions and public key infrastructure solutions, which provide companies a better way to authenticate information on the Internet. Looking ahead, we are pleased with our pipeline and remain hyper focused on our efforts to provide superior risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders.

With that, I'll turn it over to Greg to provide a deeper look at our portfolio activity and outlook on the venture debt landscape.

Greg Greifeld

Thanks, David, and good evening, everyone. I want to share a little more about our progress in optimizing the portfolio and what we're seeing across the venture debt market. During the second quarter of 2025, Runway completed 2 investments in new portfolio companies and 1 investment in an existing portfolio company, representing $37.8 million in funded loans. I want to take a moment to highlight our investment in Swing, which David touched on earlier. We are providing a $20 million senior secured loan to the company, $10 million of which is a revolving line of credit, marking our first of such arrangement. This opportunity is significant for a few reasons. First, Swing is an ideal check size to help diversify our portfolio. Second, the delayed draw enables us to grow with the company, allowing us to be an effective partner at this stage in its life cycle. And third, we believe education technology is a high- growth sector that is insulated from many of the macro headwinds we are experiencing today.

As our funnel widens and our pipeline grows, we believe there will be more opportunities like Swing that allow us to flex our newly added platform scale and growing solution set. We look forward to updating you on our expanded offerings in the quarters to come.

Turning to credit quality. Our weighted average portfolio risk rating remained at 2.33 in the second quarter of 2025, consistent with the first quarter of 2025. Our rating system is based on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 represents the most favorable credit rating. As with previous quarters, we calculated the loan-to-value ratio for loans in our portfolio at the end of the first quarter and at the end of the second quarter. We found that our dollar weighted loan-to-value ratio increased slightly from 29.0% to 29.8%. Our total investment portfolio had a fair value of $1.02 billion, an increase of 2.1% from $1 billion in the first quarter of 2025. Our loan portfolio is comprised of 97% floating rate assets.

To reiterate, we have structured our portfolio to be comprised almost exclusively of first lien senior secured loans, reflecting our focus on risk mitigation and the diligence with which we manage our investments. As David mentioned, we faced a muted operating environment in the second quarter, but we're pleased to see consistent origination activity and leverage.

Turning now to our outlook on the market. As we discussed on our first quarter 2025 earnings call, amidst the strained deal environment, we have observed a fundamental shift among venture-backed companies who we believe are compelled to demonstrate growth in order to attract investment or achieve a successful exit. Despite some encouraging signs of life in the IPO market, we do not expect a significant increase in M&A for our target sectors for the balance of the year. The management teams we are speaking with today are prepared for an exit, whether that's an IPO or M&A, but have the flexibility to be selective due to their ongoing strong financial performance. This ties back to our focus on the highest quality late and growth stage companies within technology, health care and select consumer products and services industries.

We believe our investors benefit from exposure to the venture ecosystem through a portfolio of assets at the top of the capital stack. Taking a closer look at the BDC sector and venture debt in particular, the market continues to navigate the ongoing headwinds of

constrained equity allocations. Additionally, as exits halted in the aftermath of tariff announcements during the second quarter, companies are focusing on preserving optionality to safeguard against macro turbulence.

According to PitchBook's latest venture monitor report, companies are opting for larger raises to extend runway and defer fundraising in an increasingly competitive environment. As we've observed in prior quarters, fundraising momentum in the second quarter was concentrated among select AI deals with PitchBook reporting that AI represented 64% and 36% of first half of 2025 deal value and count, respectively. We believe this will remain the state of play in the coming quarters, but we are confident in the pipeline we are building.

Further, our fundamental investment philosophy continues to generate consistent originations as we focus on portfolio optimization. With the backing of a world-class platform in BC Partners, our combined deal teams are positioned to execute on opportunities that meet our high credit bar and offer purposeful diversification for the benefit of shareholders.

Now I want to turn the call over to Tom to share more on financial results.

Thomas B. Raterman

Thanks, Greg, and good evening, everyone. We generated total investment income of $35.1 million and net investment income of $13.9 million in the second quarter of 2025, a decrease compared to $35.4 million and $15.6 million in the first quarter of 2025. Our overall decrease can be attributed to increased interest expense and the acceleration of certain deferred financing costs associated with the refinancing of our senior unsecured notes, which was required as a result of the BC Partners transaction with our adviser. Importantly, on a per share basis, we delivered $0.38 of NII in the second quarter, which covered our base dividend.

Our debt portfolio generated a dollar weighted average annualized yield of 15.4% for the second quarter of 2025, holding flat quarter- over-quarter and increasing from 15.1% for the comparable period last year.

Moving to our expenses. Total operating expenses were $21.2 million for the second quarter of 2025, an increase from $19.8 million for the first quarter of 2025. We recorded a net realized loss on investments of $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2025 compared to a net realized gain on investments of $6.1 million in the first quarter of 2025. During the second quarter, we experienced one prepayment totaling $25 million and scheduled amortization of $4.2 million.

As of June 30, 2025, we had only one loan on nonaccrual status to Mingle Healthcare. This loan has a cost basis of $4.8 million and fair market value of $2.4 million or 50% of cost, representing just 0.2% of the total investment portfolio at fair value as of June 30, 2025. We'd like to recognize that Mingle is making cash interest payments on its loan.

We're confident that our thoughtful portfolio management and ability to address potential issues that may arise, combined with our ongoing commitment to supporting borrowers throughout the entire loan life cycle will enable us to achieve beneficial outcomes for all parties involved. As of June 30, 2025, Runway had net assets of $498.9 million, decreasing from $503.3 million at the end of the first quarter of 2025. NAV per share was $13.66 at the end of the second quarter, an increase of 1.3% compared to $13.48 at the end of the first quarter of 2025. At the end of the second quarter of 2025, our leverage ratio and asset coverage were 1.05 and 1.95x, respectively, compared to 0.99 and 2.01x, respectively, at the end of the first quarter of 2025.

As of June 30, 2025, our total available liquidity was $297 million, including unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, and we had borrowing capacity of $291 million. As previously discussed, during the second quarter, we restructured our privately placed senior unsecured notes as a result of the triggering of the change in control provision applicable to the company's external adviser. This required us to make an offer to repurchase our senior unsecured notes, resulting in a prepayment of the August 2027 notes, along with an exchange and upsize of our December 2026 notes. Our total unsecured notes, excluding baby bonds, increased from $115 million to $132 million. As of June 30, 2025, we had a total of $164.9 million in unfunded commitments, which was comprised of $135.5 million to provide debt financing to our portfolio companies and $29.4 million to provide equity financing to our JV with Cadma. Approximately $35.7 million of our unfunded debt commitments are eligible to be drawn based on achieved milestones.

We continue to believe we have sufficient liquidity to support existing unfunded commitments, selective portfolio growth and potential share repurchases. On May 7, 2025, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program of $25 million, which will expire on May 7, 2026, or earlier if we repurchase the total amount of the stock authorized for repurchase under the program. During the second quarter, we repurchased 815,408 shares.

Finally, on August 6, 2025, our Board of Directors declared total distributions for the third quarter of $0.36 per share, comprised of a $0.33 regular dividend and a $0.03 supplemental dividend. We continue to believe Runway presents a great opportunity

for prospective investors that are seeking exposure to a high-quality venture and growth lending portfolio with attractive yield characteristics. Management has deep conviction that Runway offers the right combination of excellent credit quality, institutional scale and a clear opportunity for equity upside in the quarters to come. With that, operator, please open the line for questions.