Seagate Technology Holdings plc (STX) Q1 2026 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 5:00 PM EDT

Company Participants

Shanye Hudson - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & Treasury
William Mosley - CEO & Director
Gianluca Romano - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Mark Newman - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Erik Woodring - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
James Schneider - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Asiya Merchant - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Wamsi Mohan - BofA Securities, Research Division
Christopher Muse - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Sreekrishnan Sankarnarayanan - TD Cowen, Research Division
Amit Daryanani - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Thomas O'Malley - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Karl Ackerman - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division
Timothy Arcuri - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Steven Fox - Fox Advisors LLC
Ananda Baruah - Loop Capital Markets LLC, Research Division
Tristan Gerra - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Mark Miller - The Benchmark Company, LLC, Research Division
Vijay Rakesh - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to the Seagate Technology Fiscal First Quarter 2026 Conference Call.

[Operator Instructions]

Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Shanye Hudson, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Shanye Hudson
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & Treasury

Thank you. Hello, everyone, and welcome to today's call. Joining me are Dave Mosley, Seagate's Chair and Chief Executive Officer; and Gianluca Romano, our Chief Financial Officer. We've posted our earnings press release and detailed supplemental information for our September quarter results on the Investors section of our website.

During today's call, we will refer to GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP figures are reconciled to GAAP figures in the earnings press release posted on our website and included in our Form 8-K. We've not reconciled certain non-GAAP outlook measures because material items that may impact these measures are out of our control and/or cannot be reasonably predicted. Therefore, a reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP measures is not available without unreasonable efforts.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that today's call contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and assumptions based on information available to us as of today and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by these forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with our business. To learn more about the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect our future business results, please refer to the press release issued today and our SEC filings, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q as well as the supplemental information, all of which may be found on the Investors section of our website. [Operator Instructions]

With that, I'll hand the call over to Dave.

William Mosley
CEO & Director

Thanks, Shanye, and hello, everyone. Seagate delivered a very strong start to fiscal 2026. Revenue grew 21% year-over-year. Non-GAAP gross margin set a new company record at 40.1% and non-GAAP operating margin climbed to 29%, a level last seen in fiscal 2012. Non-GAAP EPS exceeded the high end of our guidance range, underscoring our focus on expanding profitability. Today, we announced an increase to our quarterly dividend of approximately 3%, reflecting confidence in our execution and ongoing sustainability of our cash flow generation capabilities as we leverage our leading HAMR technology and a strengthening demand environment for high-capacity hard drives.

Demand strength was led by global cloud service providers, and we also saw meaningful sequential revenue growth from enterprise customers in the September quarter. The data center end market, which is comprised of nearline sales into cloud, enterprise and VIA customers represented 80% of overall revenue. Amid this improving demand backdrop, our high capacity nearline production is largely committed under build-to-order contracts through calendar 2026.

Additionally, longer-term agreements that we have with our global data center customers provide clear visibility through calendar 2027, reinforcing our view that these favorable demand conditions will persist. We remain focused on executing our HAMR-based product road map to support our customers' growing exabyte needs and continue working with them to transition to higher capacity drives. There is no question that AI is reshaping hard drive demand by elevating the economic value of data and data storage.

This is evident by the growing demand for our high capacity nearline drives as customers continue to ramp investments in AI applications. AI inferencing is set to inflect and scale rapidly, further increasing data's value. Inferencing consumes and generates large volumes of data, which is then stored, monitored, validated and reintegrated into an infinite training loop. We are already seeing the positive impact of this trend as global CSPs deploy large-scale inferencing applications that rely on multimodal inputs such as text, audio and video.

Using monthly token consumption as a proxy for inferencing adoption, one major hyperscaler reported a 50-fold increase in the span of a year. This explosive growth is driving a sharp increase in unstructured data generation that creates demand for hard drive storage.

Video content is a major contributor of unstructured data and is driving considerable demand for hard drives today from social media platforms to content delivery networks and online marketing. AI-generated videos promise to further fuel demand growth. There are already numerous text-to-video tools that democratize creativity by letting anyone generate professional quality videos from text, images or sketches. We see this trend already taking hold. For example, Google reports over 275 million videos were generated on its Veo platform within the first 5 months. With a 1-minute AI video being up to 20,000x larger than a 1,000 word text file, the data storage implications are clear. The rapid adoption and growing capability of these tools are already having a positive impact on the demand for storage.

Beyond the application space, we have discussed new storage use cases from emerging trends around hybrid cloud environments that enhance data security and compliance with data sovereignty regulations. Recently Seagate partnered with a global CSP to develop a sovereign cloud solution for managing massive volumes of sensitive telemetry and sensor data collected from a fleet of autonomous vehicles. These type of data sets are subject to strict requirements and stipulate such data must be processed, stored and managed locally.

As in any other data center, hard drives provide the ideal solution by meeting customer requirements for throughput, durability and cost-efficient long-term data retention. As data generation explodes and new use cases emerge, Seagate is answering the call with a clear long-term road map to capture demand. Momentum continues to build for our HAMR-based Mozaic platforms, and we achieved several important milestones in the quarter consistent with what we discussed during our analyst event.

We now have 5 global CSPs qualified on Mozaic 3+ terabyte per disk products, which can deliver capacities up to 36 terabytes per drive. We remain on track to qualify the remaining 3 global CSPs within the first half of calendar 2026.

Additionally, we shipped over 1 million Mozaic drives in the September quarter. These products are performing well in live production environments, and we are on pace to achieve 50% exabyte crossover on nearline HAMR drives in the second half of calendar 2026, and we started qualification with a second major CSP on the Mozaic 4+ terabyte per disk platform, with initial volume ramp starting in the first half of next calendar year. This platform will offer capacities of up to 44 terabytes.

Advancing aerial density is a key competitive advantage, not just for Seagate, but for the hard drive industry overall. We are leveraging our manufacturing expertise and advancements in technologies, including silicon photonics to pave the path to 10 terabytes per disk. Our aerial density road map delivers a superior and sustainable TCO advantage for hard drives compared to alternative technologies well into the future. Customers clearly see the value of transitioning to higher capacity HAMR products as the most efficient way to support their rapidly expanding data storage needs in an AI-driven world.

Wrapping up, the Seagate team continues to execute at an exceptional level. We are delivering on our target financial framework supported by a structurally improved business and a strong sustainable demand environment. We are advancing our HAMR led technology road map, which creates significant value for our customers and positions Seagate for long-term success. With the strength of our technology road map and the transformative impact of AI, we believe the best years are still ahead of us. I am proud of how our teams are rising to meet the opportunities ahead as we remain focused on delivering profitable revenue growth and expanding cash flow generation in fiscal '26 and beyond.

I'd like to thank our employees, supply partners and customers for their many contributions to our performance and to Seagate's ongoing success.

Let me now turn the call over to Gianluca.

Gianluca Romano
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Dave. Our September quarter performance demonstrates strong operational execution and underscores the enhanced structural economics of our business model. We delivered revenue of $2.63 billion, up 8% sequentially and up 21% year-over-year. We achieved a record non-GAAP gross margin of 40.1%, up 220 basis points sequentially. And we expanded non-GAAP operating margin by 280 basis points to 29% sequentially. Our result in non-GAAP EPS was $2.61, exceeding the high end of our guided range. We have continued to execute our technology road map to support ongoing demand momentum for our higher capacity products.

In September quarter, we shipped 182 exabytes, up 32% year-over-year, with the vast majority of that volume delivered to global data center customers. As we shared last quarter, we will be discussing the business across 2 key markets: data center, which is comprised of nearline products and system that are sold into cloud, enterprise and VIA customers. And edge IoT, which includes consumer and client-centric markets, along with network attached storage.

In the September quarter, data center revenue represented 80% of our total revenue at $2.1 billion, up 13% sequentially and 34% year-on-year. Demand from global cloud customers continue to grow, and we also saw a notable improvement in the enterprise OEM markets. We project these positive trends to continue with cloud growth expected to outpace enterprise demand. Whether data is stored in public cloud, private cloud or on-premises, the shift from AI model training to inferencing is driving the need for large capacity or drive storage. This includes everything from saving checkpoints to maintain model accuracy and integrity to storing the vast data sets required for effective inference results.

In the September quarter, we shipped 159 exabytes into data center customers, up from 137 exabytes in the prior period. Cloud exabyte demand increased for the ninth consecutive quarter, resulting in close to 80% of nearline volume on drive capacities at or above 24 terabytes as customers continue to mix up to higher capacity drives.

Over the past year, average nearline drive capacity has increased by 26%, which is a primary contributor to our exabyte volume growth. Amid tight supply condition, we are partnering closely with data center customers to support and where possible, accelerate their qualification time line on our high-capacity Mozaic products. As Dave highlighted earlier, a majority of the largest cloud customers in the world are now qualified on our HAMR-based Mozaic drives, and we are continuing to ramp these products to support customer demand. The strong data center growth that I just described more than offset lower sequential sales in the edge IoT market, which made up the remaining 20% of revenue at $515 million. We are expecting some seasonal improvement in Edge IoT revenue in the December quarter from both VIA, Edge and consumer products.

Moving on to the rest of the income statement. Non-GAAP gross profit increased to $1.1 billion, up 14% quarter-over-quarter and 46% compared with the prior year period. We expanded non-GAAP gross margin to 40.1%, which represents an incremental margin of nearly 70%. This margin growth reflects the benefit of increased adoption of our latest generation products and ongoing execution of our pricing strategy. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $291 million, up 2% quarter-over-quarter and in line with our expectations.

The combination of strong top line growth and significant financial leverage drove a 19% improvement in operating profit to $763 million. Other income and expense were $74 million, and we are currently projecting OI&E to be essentially flat in the December quarter. We grew non-GAAP net income to $583 million with corresponding non-GAAP EPS of $2.61 per share based on tax expenses of $106 million and a diluted share count of approximately 223 million shares, including the net impact of our 2028 convertible notes of approximately 7 million shares.

Turning now to cash flow and the balance sheet. We invested $105 million in capital expenditures for the September quarter or roughly 4% of revenue. For fiscal '26, we anticipate capital expenditures to be inside our target range of 4% to 6% of revenue, while we continue maintaining capital discipline. Free cash flow generation was flat quarter-over-quarter at $427 million, including the substantial variable compensation payout we discussed on our July earnings call.

Looking ahead, we expect free cash flow generation to expand in the December quarter. We returned $153 million to shareholders through dividend. And as Dave noted earlier, we are increasing our quarterly dividend by approximately 3% to $0.74 per share. We deployed $29 million to repurchase shares of our common stock at an average price of $187 per share. We will continue to opportunistically repurchase shares and anticipate share repurchase activities to vary from quarter-to-quarter.

We remain committed to returning at least 75% of free cash flow to shareholders over time. Cash and cash equivalents increased 25% sequentially to close the September quarter with ample liquidity of $2.4 billion, including our undrawn revolving credit facility of $1.3 billion. We exited the quarter with gross debt of approximately $5 billion and net leverage ratio of 1.5x based on adjusted EBITDA of $831 million for the September quarter, up 19% quarter-over-quarter and up 67% year-on-year.

We are pleased that our strong execution is being recognized with S&P upgrading our credit rating earlier this month. Looking ahead, we expect net leverage ratio will continue to trend lower as profitability increases in the coming quarters. Additionally, we are exploring opportunities to further reduce debt, supporting the positive leverage ratio trajectory.

Turning now to the December quarter outlook. The demand environment remains strong, particularly among global cloud data centers. We expect to increase revenue and expand margins as these customers continue to shift to our next-generation storage solutions to support their increasing demand. We expect December quarter revenue to be in a range of $2.7 billion, plus or minus $100 million, which represents a 16% year-over-year improvement at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to remain relatively flat at approximately $290 million. Based on the midpoint of our revenue guidance, non-GAAP operating margin is expected to expand to around 30%. Non-GAAP EPS is expected to be $2.75, plus or minus $0.20 based on a tax rate of about 16% and non-GAAP diluted share count of 227 million shares, including estimated dilution from our 2028 convertible notes of 10 million shares.

As demonstrated by our September quarter results, Seagate is delivering on our financial commitments, reinforcing our track record of operational execution. Our performance is underpinned by a strong product road map that offer enterprise exabyte scale storage solutions, enabling them to maximize the potential of their data. This strength positions Seagate to drive meaningful value for both customers and shareholders.

Operator, let's open the call up for questions.