Under Armour, Inc. (NYSE:UAA) Q1 2026 Earnings Conference Call August 8, 2025 8:30 AM ET

Company Participants

David E. Bergman - Chief Financial Officer
Kevin A. Plank - Founder, President, CEO & Director
Lance Allega - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & Corporate Development

Conference Call Participants

Brian William Nagel - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Brooke Siler Roach - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Jay Daniel Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Laurent Andre Vasilescu - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division
Paul Lawrence Lejuez - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Peter Clement McGoldrick - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Samuel Marc Poser - Williams Trading, LLC, Research Division

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Under Armour Q1 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note that today's event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Lance Allega, Senior Vice President, Finance and Capital Markets. Please proceed.

Lance Allega

Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to Under Armour's First Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Conference Call.

Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay. Joining us on the call this morning are Under Armour's President and CEO, Kevin Plank; and Chief Financial Officer, Dave Bergman.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that our remarks today will include forward-looking statements that reflect Under Armour management's current views as of August 8, 2025. These statements may include projections about our future performance and are not guarantees of future results. Actual results may differ materially due to several risks and uncertainties, which are described in this morning's press release and in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Today's discussion may also reference non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe provide useful insight into our underlying business trends. And applicable reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to their most comparable GAAP counterparts can be found in this morning's press release and on our Investor Relations website at about.underarmour.com.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Kevin.

Kevin A. Plank

Thanks, Lance, and thank you all for joining us this morning. With the first quarter complete, this is an important moment to evaluate our position and importantly, our direction. We're undertaking a bold reinvention and rebuilding with purpose to become a sharper, more focused brand one that blends sports, style and innovation with financial discipline and edge. This isn't about fixing the past, it's about unlocking our full potential. Under Armour started as a product in 1996 and became a brand over the following two decades and, quite frankly, has spent the last 8 years operating more like a company than a brand. 16 months back into the CEO role, my hands are firmly on the wheel.

We're in the process of flipping that script, where every decision we make is focused through a brand first lens. This in no way means retreating on operational discipline. In fact, it means being a better company with rigor and process, capital allocation and execution, but simply requiring that every decision we do make contemplates is this the best decision for our brand because if it's the best decision for the brand then it's the best decision to create long-term shareholder value. World-class financials don't build world-class brands. It's actually the other way around. The only way we win is by creating a brand people can't ignore.

Our current numbers don't yet tell the whole story, but the signs are there. Brand health is starting to gain traction. Cultural relevance is returning, and our phone is ringing from talent that wants to join us. EMEA is outperforming. North America, APAC are on path towards better stability and team sports are heating up, while digital engagement is increasing. We're stronger than we were 6 months ago and will be even stronger 6 months from now. This transformation isn't easy and requires a lot of patience, more than any of us would like, but we're taking the right steps to build deeper, lasting connections with consumers and focused on creating mid- and long- term shareholder value.

The good news, we're not starting from scratch. We have the essentials with presence in nearly 150 countries, 2,000 mono-branded stores, 15,000 teammates, a new headquarters, almost 30 years of sports credibility. Our strength is authenticity, which I don't believe we've fully embraced, and that's now changing. And yes, the environment is challenging, limited spending, higher promotions and a dynamic domestic tariff policy. Independent of that, our mission is clear: Stop the decline and rebuild stronger.

I understand what's at stake and intend to apply a lifetime of brand-building experience, 20 years of it with the same public company and creating our best work driving this transformation. At the heart of this are bold from two shifts, deliberate moves that redefine our brand identity and reshape our operations. Let me walk you through how we're turning that vision into reality.

Over the past year, we've achieved significant progress in realigning our product engine, simplifying operations and positioning Under Armour to better serve athletes, customers and shareholders in the long run. We faced some tough truths. Our assortment had been too broad, our material library is too complicated and our design language lacked clarity. So we're simplifying. We're consolidating. We're editing and we're laying the foundation for sharper execution and better pricing, cutting down the product range of materials is already making us faster, leaner and more focused.

We're on track to meet our initial goal of reducing SKUs by 25%. We're discovering more ways to streamline. This focus sharpens execution and strengthens our product lineup. We've already cut our materials by 30% for our 2025 products and plan to reduce it further in 2026, lowering costs, improving sourcing and supporting more sustainable innovation-driven design. In effect, as our old saying goes, we plan to spend much more time writing a much shorter letter.

We certainly made progress and now aim to push even harder, especially with underperforming and low-margin products, leading with math like any basic 80/20 rule, but ensuring that we are also brand informed as we make decisions. In March, we introduced a new category management operating model and go-to-market process, both are now active and continuously being refined. Along the way, we've combined experience UA talent with fresh leadership to inject energy and expertise where it counts most.

Just last week, Eric Liedtke and I guided our corporate team through our 5-year strategic road map, effectively the final and third leg of the brand foundation to complement our operating model that rolled out in February and the go-to-market we described during our last call using the No Weigh backpack as our example. These three brand foundational pillars are essential to any transformation and what I'm most excited about from a progress standpoint since April of '24.

Key component of any strong culture is ensuring that every teammate knows exactly what's expected of them and what the definition of success is. This structure is now in place. Our team is aligned, we're set up to run. To try to simplify the broader strategic goal for the organization, in the one statement of what we aim to achieve, it is selling so much more of so much left at a much higher full retail price.

That means tighter assortments, more key items safety stock, netting better order fulfillment, straightforward storytelling of intentional, personified products that we make famous, like our HeatGear base layer, realizing the full retail value for our product all the way out the door. It's what's essential for us to make this brand transformation happen. This is underway, and we're driving through two key levers. First, we'll continue to launch pinnacle defining products like our HeatGear OG compression mock, the Velociti Elite 3 running shoe, the Magnetico football boot and Halo collection, along with accessories such as the StealthForm Hat and the No Weigh backpack, products that only UA could make informed from our unique brand intersection of sports authenticity, cultural style and distinct innovation, all with higher ASPs that we are inviting the market to stretch to, and they're gaining real traction.

Secondly, we're working to apply those lessons of premiumizing our brand to our top 10 volume drivers across apparel, footwear and accessories. We're systematically redesigning our top 10 volume items for better performance, bolder designs leading to better and more full average selling price revenue. We're elevating the reason to buy UA. Updated industry-leading innovative products with richer storytelling and brand confidence for our consumers. These top 10 styles represent tens of millions of units that once driving higher average selling prices will fall straight to our bottom line. This two-lever strategy also has the benefit of being the same play we are and would run to help mitigate tariff impacts.

While we cannot affect holistically in the short term, we should see this benefit coming through our P&L in coming seasons. Pulling this example all the way through where prior to April 2, we'd already been planning to improve product quality for our consumers with an item like our $25 tech tee, moving that to a higher price point justified by enhancing fabric material design and story. Now we're considering pushing that price point a bit further to an embedded consumer who we do have pricing power with.

Effectively, we're running a very similar play to elevate the brand that we're now incorporating to mitigate tariffs. We're not, however, walking away from value-driven consumers. Sports gives us room to compete at every level, good, better and best. We're expanding our top tiers while keeping the right products at entry price points, but moving those price points and the products quality themselves up. That balance is what built Under Armour, and it's how will continue to succeed by creating performance gear that is desired by consumers regardless of the price point.

We're also changing how we connect with athletes, a realignment of our presence and who we serve. We're shifting from a gym first approach to a focus on team sports, emphasizing both American and global football, basketball, baseball and volleyball. It's a deliberate move back to performance, bringing new energy and relevance to today's game. At the same time, we're expanding beyond our GenX Foundation to connect with Gen Z and Alpha purpose-driven athletes who value transparency, authenticity and daily

relevance. We're also shifting from primarily a professional athlete-only model to an influencer-led network, broadening our athlete roster to include high school stars, college athletes, creators and their communities.

Through NIL partnerships, grassroots efforts and authentic storytelling, we're building momentum from the ground up and the energy will continue to grow. This transformation cuts across every category. We're expanding beyond just the locker room, building real sports for our credibility, while continuing to deliver high-performance gear for athletes both on and off the field. We're also working to close a gap we've let sit for too long, the needs of women. Yes, we built a $1 billion plus women's business, but its share of our total hasn't increased. That's on us, and we're addressing it.

We're integrating a women's centered approach directly into our category management model, led by long-time UA veteran, Jeanette Robertson. It's a structural change, and we're working hard to get it right, not only in product but also in how we design, market and bring her into our brand.

Next, let's talk about footwear. We know it's not where it should be. For too long, we lacked focus and consistency in a category that defines our industry. We pursued too many ideas adopted franchise architecture late and missed opportunities in innovation, design and storytelling that athletes expect from Under Armour. Two years ago, we reset our footwear business under the leadership of industry veteran, Yassine Saidi. We made a very intentional decision to take a step back to move forward, streamlining the portfolio, eliminating underperforming lines and rebuilding with a sharper more focused foundation deeply connected to the athlete in all aspects of how they live.

Running footwear is a great example where we now have two very clear pinnacle vertical silos of product, Velociti and the recently launched Halo. We've made the decision to sunset our previous Infinite franchise, which we believe is a long-term brand right decision, but it's come at a price which you're seeing affect our near-term footwear declines and replaced it with a broader aperture and more sports casual vertical of Halo, while doubling down on our Velociti franchise in high-performance run.

These deliberate decisions, combined with softer demand are weighing on our results, and we own them. However, we believe this to be near term. And over the mid- to long term, we anticipate harnessing our Velociti and Halo Foundation to drive greater intention across our running category and a blueprint for the broader footwear business. Our immediate numbers reflect the transition but believe that our long-term results will reflect the transformation. The goal is simple, sharper design, stronger storytelling, reliable performance on and off the field. Early signs are promising, and we're moving in the right direction.

And in running, the Velociti Elite 3 is delivering 6 major wins this year, American records in the half in Mile and Sharon Lokedi's course record in Boston just this past year. This is exactly the kind of pinnacle moment we're building for from the $250 Elite 3 with design continuity that stretches across 6 price points all the way down to the $75 redesigned Assert, our largest volume program. Our running collection connects with runners at every level, boosting brand momentum, earning credibility with athletes and turning that momentum into real commercial success.

In American football, the Spotlight Pro Suede sold out at launch. In baseball, our King of Diamonds and Juice Drops are driving momentum. In global football, Achraf Hakimi, wears Magnetico Elite on the world's biggest stage. And in basketball, Flow continues to drive our iconic franchises.

These wins are restoring our credibility and fueling performance growth with new sports style $120-plus franchises like Slipspeed, Echo and Apparition, along with fresh launches like Sola and Halo, we're confidently moving into the premium space. The goal isn't just to compete but to lead with ASPs that reflect the strength of our brand and the quality of our products. From a channel perspective, we're shifting from transactional selling to a story-driven brand that consumers seek out and support. In the U.S., this involves replacing a long-standing focus on discounts with premium athlete centered narratives brought to life through elevated DTC experiences.

These stories generate demand and improve full price sell-through while strengthening our loyalty memberships and driving wholesale interest. From an operational perspective, we're transforming how we work by moving from siloed functions to collaborative category- led teams, driven by real-time data and shared KPIs. This modern system is built for speed, scale and smarter decision-making, utilizing AI to help us.

We're also shifting seasonal drops to an ongoing cycle of brand-led storytelling, fostering emotional connections and lasting loyalty through culturally relevant moments and timely innovation. Additionally, AI is becoming more integrated across the business, enhancing design, planning and forecasting. After 2 years of data and platform development, we have over 80 automations that are streamlining workflows, reducing time to market and improving execution from predictive pricing to real-time inventory management.

Next, let's talk about the regions, starting with North America, where we expect fiscal '26 to see challenges from higher costs due to tariffs and you have softer demand. Yet we see this as an inflection point, not a ceiling. Despite the environment, we're executing a phased plan to rebuild brand loyalty, improve revenue quality and lay the groundwork for sustainable growth. In our largest market, we're regaining cultural relevance, beginning with American football and expanding into team sports, creators, and cultural collaborations that connect Under Armour to the core of the athlete and culture.

Our priorities are clear: strengthen brand loyalty through top-tier sports culture and emotionally compelling storytelling, stabilize to growth by increasing full price e-commerce, boosting factory house profitability and rebuilding wholesale partnerships, and shrink the battlefield by concentrating on key product franchises and optimize distribution to achieve more consistent wins, doing less things better. Amid this reset, we're seeing early signs of progress.

In digital, we're recreating a more connected experience driven platform. Although results are still modest, the momentum is evident, Spotlight Suede became our top full-price footwear style driven by organic TikTok buzz. Our SMS program launched in June, has already gained over 100,000 subscribers, and our Instagram shop has been seeing strong growth since its relaunch this past month. Our e-commerce Net Promoter Score has increased by 18 points year-over-year to nearly 70, a strong signal that our customer experience is improving and our efforts are resonating. Traffic and sell-through still have room to grow, we're tackling that with faster site performance, richer storytelling and smarter merchandising.

In our Factory House business, innovation is fueling sales growth, even with this value channel. We're seeing success testing new key items at full price, including our $45 StealthForm hat and our HeatGear collection are both strong examples. Although traffic remains slower, improved execution is boosting conversion rates. Factory House continues to serve as a proving ground for mixed experimentation, raising ASPs and protecting margins through smarter promotions and targeted merchandising. Wholesale remains our biggest North American growth opportunity. Reclaiming shelf space takes time, but we're approaching with discipline and optimism and our partners are listening.

Leading with innovative products like HeatGear and a strong cleated footwear performance, we're reengaging customers and building trust. Each season brings new opportunities and we're laying the groundwork now for future success. In our storytelling, we're making one thing clear. Under Armour is back. We're beginning to see it in the numbers. Brand health is improving, and our renewed narrative and full funnel media investments are connecting with the athletes we want to reach.

Our renewed NFL partnership and signings like the #1 draft to Cam Ward and Luther Burden III, show our long-term commitment to performance. That momentum drives our We Are football campaign that will be debuting in early September, lending sports, music and culture with athletes, creators and stars like Justin Jefferson, recording artist Gunna and top 7 on 7 talent. With the rapid rise of flag football especially among youth and women, based on our gridiron credibility, we see a clear path to lead here.

All in, cultural energy continues to grow. Justin Jefferson's UA Next Flight School content reached over 7 million views even before launching on YouTube. Spotlight Suede, TikTok buzz demonstrates how product and storytelling can create demand. Activations like the No Weigh Backpack blend performance and lifestyle in a way that feels fresh and uniquely UA, especially to the 16- to 24-year- old team sports athlete. Excitement is also growing for this year's Curry tour in China, which is a multi-day single-city immersion that unites 30 of the top APAC basketball athletes for Curry Camp, creates one-on-one moments with Steph and his training team engages regional media and culminates in [ Curry On ], a fan-driven celebration were supporters from across APAC share memorabilia and connect deeply with Stephen, delivering a powerful brand and business opportunity through a meaningful, high-impact interaction.

In EMEA, our strongest performing region, we're achieving profitable brand-driven growth through sharper execution, local relevance and financial discipline. We're not trying to be everywhere. We're focused on winning where it matters most, guided by a high-return 1,2,3,4 strategy. Let me explain.

One sport, football being on pitch with elite athletes like Achraf Hakimi, Toni Rüdiger, and Pedro Porro and so many more is how we're establishing brand authenticity in Europe. Through targeted marketing, credible athletes and franchise-led storytelling, we're building trust from grassroots to the elite levels. Two, cities, London and Paris are driving our growth. Three countries, the U.K., France and Spain. This brings us to 4 categories of focus: football, sportswear, training and running.

Momentum is building, and we're unlocking EMEA's full potential. And importantly, we're applying the lessons from the success in North America and APAC. This strengthens our confidence in the path toward greater stability and eventual return to growth in these markets.

In Asia Pacific, we've emerged from a reset year stronger, more focused and positioned to advance with discipline, starting with the appointment of Simon Pestridge, a 25-year industry veteran to lead the region. With structural challenges addressed and key roadblocks removed, we're now building a premium high integrity marketplace that reflects Under Armour's true brand strength.

Our APAC strategy is clear: reignite relevance through local storytelling and innovation, drive full price growth and elevate the marketplace through sharper distribution, disciplined pricing and premium partnerships.

Combined with tighter inventory management, these efforts will strengthen both retail and wholesale execution. That said, fiscal '26 is about stabilizing APAC and building momentum for sustained growth. Now before I finish, I want to address the incremental tariffs announced on July 31 and increased pressures our business is facing this year. Following those updates, we estimate approximately $100 million in additional tariff-related costs, along with softer-than-expected demand in fiscal '26.

When combined, even with mitigation efforts and disciplined SG&A management, our profitability is projected to be about half of what it was last year. None of this is ideal. We don't like this. But also, it won't define a year. There's just too much good happening with the overall shape and energy of our business. We faced bigger headwinds before, and this is simply the next one we'll get through because no matter the environment, our mission remains unchanged to execute the strategy, strengthen our brand, increased average selling prices and succeed with athletes, we're running our play and that's exactly what we're doing.

With a world-class team and a clear strategy aligned across the organization, we're advancing with clarity, agility and accountability. Even now before this transformation is fully realized, Under Armour is a $5 billion brand. That's a testament to our enduring relevance, strength of the brand and a clear signal of the massive potential ahead. At our core, we're not reinventing who we are. We're reclaiming it, bold, original and unapologetically UA.

I appreciate your attention and trust this morning. And with that, I'll turn it over to Dave to discuss first quarter fiscal '26 results and the outlook we have for Q2.

David E. Bergman

Okay. Thanks, Kevin. Moving directly into our first quarter fiscal 2016 results. We're pleased to have delivered another quarter that met or slightly exceeded our outlook on every line item. First quarter revenue declined 4% to $1.1 billion, with regional results as follows: In North America, revenue declined 5%, primarily due to a decrease in our full price wholesale business and lower e- commerce sales. Revenue in EMEA increased 10% or 6% after adjusting for foreign currency fluctuations, indicating steady growth in the region. Furthermore, EMEA saw growth across all channels during the quarter, led by our full price wholesale business.

APAC revenue decreased 10% on both a reported and currency-neutral basis, with declines in wholesale and DTC as consumer confidence remains weak amid a highly competitive and promotional market. And within Latin America, revenue declined 15%, partially due to foreign currency headwinds. On a currency-neutral basis, revenue declined 8% for the quarter, with decreases in full- price wholesale and DTC partially offset by growth in our distributor business.

From a channel perspective, wholesale revenue declined 5% as lower full price and distributor sales were partially offset by growth in our off-price channel, driven by timing of sales to third-party partners. Direct-to-consumer revenue declined 3%, including a 12% decline in e-commerce sales caused by highly competitive conditions in APAC and in North America. Sales at our owned and operated stores increased by 1% this quarter, led by our Factory House business. And licensing revenues increased 12% with growth in both North American and international licensees.

Finally, by product type, apparel revenue declined 1%, with softness in run, outdoor and golf, partially offset by strength and training sportswear. Footwear revenue was down 14% in the quarter with declines across all categories. This reflects a challenging consumer demand environment and our deliberate work to optimize the business as we prepare for stronger, more impactful launches in the seasons ahead. Accessories grew 8% this quarter, driven by strength and train and sportswear along with accelerated inventory management actions.

Our first quarter gross margin increased by 70 basis points year-over-year to 48.2%. This growth was driven by 55 basis points of favorable foreign currency impacts, 30 basis points of pricing benefits and 30 basis points of favorable product mix. These benefits were partially offset by 45 basis points of unfavorable channel mix and supply chain headwinds.

Now moving to SG&A expenses, which decreased 37% to $530 million in the first quarter as last year's first quarter included a considerable litigation reserve expense. Excluding approximately $8 million in the transformation expenses related to our fiscal 2025 restructuring plan, our first quarter adjusted SG&A expenses were $522 million, reflecting a 6% decline compared to last year's adjusted figure. The decrease was primarily driven by lower marketing and savings across various areas resulting from our restructuring plan and ongoing cost management efforts.

In the first quarter, we recorded $13 million in restructuring charges and $8 million in transformation-related SG&A expenses, totaling approximately $21 million. Since launching our fiscal '25 restructuring plan, we've recognized $110 million in charges and transformation expenses to date, $65 million of which are cash related and $45 million in noncash. We now expect total planned charges to finish towards the high end of our previously disclosed $140 million to $160 million range, with the remaining costs primarily tied to the planned closure of our Rialto distribution center recognized by the end of fiscal 2026.

As a result of these actions, we delivered approximately $35 million in savings in fiscal '25 and expect approximately $45 million more in fiscal '26. With the emergence of significant new tariff pressures, we are actively reviewing our cost structure to find additional efficiencies, always with a brand-first approach to ensure we can offset headwinds while reinvesting in this product, storytelling and experiences that drive our growth.

Continuing through the P&L, we reported operating income of $3 million in the first quarter. Excluding transformation expenses and restructuring charges, our adjusted operating income was $24 million. Looking at the bottom line, our reported diluted loss per share was $0.01, while our adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.02 for the quarter.

Now moving to the balance sheet. Inventory at the end of Q1 was $1.1 billion, a 2% increase year-over-year. Our cash balance was $911 million and we did not utilize our revolving credit facility during the quarter. The sequential increase in cash was mainly driven by our June issuance of $400 million in senior notes due in 2030. We plan to use the proceeds along with borrowings under our revolver to redeem the $600 million of senior notes that are due in June of 2026.

Looking ahead to our outlook for the year and building on Kevin's opening remarks. Last quarter, we noted that before any global trade policy changes, we expected a modest revenue decline in fiscal '26 as we focused on strengthening the brand and increasing higher quality sales. Since then, changing trade policies have created additional headwinds, including on the demand side, making it more difficult to predict the future environment, but also highlighting the importance of our disciplined brand first strategy.

Considering our expected fiscal '26 cost of goods sold headwind of approximately $100 million or about 200 basis points of negative gross margin impact, we are actively pursuing mitigation strategies such as cost sharing with suppliers and partners, exploring alternative sourcing options and making selective pricing adjustments. However, due to the complexity and lead times involved, we anticipate most of the gross margin offsets to be realized in fiscal '27 and beyond.

Amid these headwinds, we are also maintaining cost discipline and SG&A, reducing discretionary spending and continue to expect to leverage against revenue as we stated on our last call. That said, we are working to protect the brand and preserve strategic investments that are critical to unlocking long-term value. Given the new tariff costs this year and related demand impacts, partially offset by our mitigation actions, we expect operating income on an adjusted basis to be roughly half of fiscal '25 levels. Additionally, we also expect fiscal '26 EPS to be pressured by higher other expense, primarily interest expense from increased debt and an adjusted effective tax rate more than double fiscal 2025, driven primarily by unfavorable regional mix and profitability.

Now turning to our outlook for the second quarter of fiscal '26. We expect revenue will decline 6% to 7% year-over-year which we believe will be our toughest quarterly top line results of this year. In North America, we anticipate a low double-digit decline due primarily to continued weakness in our wholesale business. APAC is expected to be down at a low teen rate as we continue to navigate soft consumer sentiment in a highly promotional environment. That said, in both of these regions, we're staying focused on improving sales quality and creating a healthier, more premium marketplace.

On the upside, we expect EMEA to deliver high single-digit revenue growth, strong performance across both wholesale and DTC channels. Regarding gross margin, we expect a decline of 340 to 360 basis points compared to last year, driven by approximately 300 basis points of decline from higher product costs, of which about 2/3 relates to new tariff costs and approximately 100 basis points of decline from channel mix. We expect these decreases will be partially offset by favorable changes in foreign currency and pricing benefits.

Excluding transformation expenses from our fiscal 2025 restructuring plan, second quarter adjusted SG&A is projected to grow at a high single-digit rate year-over-year. Recall that last year's second quarter was not adjusted for a $27 million insurance recovery benefit tied to prior year legal fees. Excluding the insurance recovery, adjusted SG&A is expected to grow at a low single-digit rate, driven primarily by higher marketing investments as we lap a timing shift that pushed most of last year's spend into the second half of the year.

Bringing this together, we expect adjusted operating income for the quarter of $30 million to $40 million. Incorporating the previously mentioned other expense and tax headwinds, we anticipate adjusted diluted earnings per share will range from $0.01 to $0.02 for the second quarter.

So to close, while the environment remains dynamic, we're staying focused with financial discipline, confidence and a clear sense of direction. We are shaping Under Armour into a brand that stands apart where sports, performance and style converge in a way only we can deliver. This transformation will take time and requires patience, as we take the deliberate steps needed to get it right. Our team is making bolder decisions, streamlining operations and moving with greater speed and precision.

In the near term, we'll remain agile and disciplined through this building phase. Over time, these actions will deliver what matters most: stronger results, deeper consumer loyalty and a brand that's more resilient, more distinctive and positioned for lasting success. Now we'll open the call to questions. Operator?