Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 29, 2025 8:30 AM EDT

Company Participants

Brady Connor - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Daniel Schulman - Director & CEO
Anthony Skiadas - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

John Hodulik - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Benjamin Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Michael Ng - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Michael Rollins - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Sebastiano Petti - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Michael Funk - BofA Securities, Research Division
Peter Supino - Wolfe Research, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to Verizon's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Brady Connor, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

Brady Connor
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, Brad. Good morning, and welcome to our third quarter 2025 earnings call. I'm Brady Connor, and on the call with me this morning is our new Chief Executive Officer, Dan Schulman; and Tony Skiadas, our CFO.

Before we begin, I'd like to point you to our safe harbor statement, which can be found in the earnings presentation on our Investor Relations website. Our comments this morning may include forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may affect future results are discussed in our SEC filings. This presentation also contains non-GAAP financial measures, and you can find reconciliations of these measures in the materials on our website.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Dan.

Daniel Schulman
Director & CEO

Thanks, Brady, and good morning, everyone.

On behalf of the Board and everyone at the company, I want to start off by thanking Hans for his leadership and passion and his many contributions to Verizon over the past 8 years.

Hans executed a series of technology-related investments that have positioned Verizon for success. By building an enviable network and a strong foundation we can leverage going forward. Hans has been a friend for many years, and I appreciate your support as we enter this new chapter. Personally, I could not be more excited about the future of Verizon, and I am honored to be its next CEO.

As most of you know, I come to this role with extensive experience in the technology, telecommunications and wireless industries. In fact, I began my career as an assistant account executive at New Jersey Bell and then spent 18 years at AT&T eventually becoming the President of its consumer division. So I have deep roots in the telecom sector and in many ways, this is like coming home for me. In the years since I've had the privilege to help lead and grow some of the most iconic consumer brands in the world, including AT&T, priceline.com, Virgin Mobile, American Express, PayPal and now Verizon. Those experiences have provided me with a strong perspective on customer-centric growth. And of course, I've served on the Board of Verizon for the past 7 years. So while I am only a few weeks into my tenure as the company's CEO, I've had a front row seat into the company's evolution since 2018, and therefore, come into this role with a rich perspective of where Verizon is coming from and what the opportunities are.

For many years, Verizon has led the industry with our reliable and scalable network, and we will continue to advance our network leadership. As you know, we're significantly investing in cyber and in the power of convergence with our acquisition of Frontier, which we expect to close early next year. Verizon has deep strength and incredible potential, but the blunt truth is we haven't captured the customer growth opportunities this strong foundation enables. Verizon is at a critical inflection point. For years, our priority was clear: build the best and most reliable network.

With that foundation firmly in place, our next chapter is about serving and delighting customers by building the industry's best overall value proposition and the best customer experience on top of it. We must shift to a customer-first focus and redefine our trajectory. This is not a course correction. It is a fundamental change in our strategic approach to customers. The only way we can drive sustainable value for our shareholders is by significantly raising our game and winning responsibly in the market. This is about financially disciplined growth, winning with the right customers at the right economics. Volume growth and profitability growth can go and will go hand-in-hand. We are fully committed to achieving both simultaneously.

Before I elaborate on my vision for a revitalized Verizon, I'm going to hand it over to Tony to cover our third quarter performance.

Anthony Skiadas
Executive VP & CFO

Great. Thanks, Dan, and good morning.

Before I begin, I just want to take a moment to congratulate Dan on his appointment as CEO of Verizon. The leadership team and I are excited to work with him in creating this new chapter for our company. First and foremost, we remain on track to deliver our full year financial guidance, which includes our previously raised expectations for adjusted EBITDA growth adjusted EPS growth and free cash flow.

In Consumer Mobility, we delivered strong postpaid phone gross adds up 8.4% from the prior year. However, gross add growth was offset by churn of 0.91%, which resulted in postpaid phone net losses of 7,000 in the quarter. We continue to see healthy retention benefits from our converged customers. At the end of the quarter, more than 18% of our consumer postpaid phone base took a converged offering more than 200 basis points above last year. We see significant opportunities to increase convergence in the Frontier footprint after we close the transaction. Importantly, converged customers on fiber have a mobility churn rate that's nearly 40% lower than our overall mobility base. We also saw a 16% year-over-year increase in consumer upgrades in the third quarter tied to our best value guarantee, which is resonating with customers.

Moving to core prepaid, we delivered 47,000 net adds, our fifth consecutive quarter of positive subscriber growth. The strength of our key brands as well as the continued expansion of total wireless distribution positions us to continue to grow our prepaid business. Verizon business delivered 51,000 phone net adds. As expected, we continue to see disconnect pressure in the public sector, in part from ongoing government efficiency efforts. This was more than offset by strong demand from small and medium businesses and large enterprise customers as we continue to be the provider of choice for businesses.

Shifting to broadband. We once again delivered solid results with 306,000 net adds. Our broadband base is up 1.3 million subscribers from a year ago and is now over 13.2 million subscribers. Fios internet delivered 61,000 net adds, our best quarterly result in 2 years. Given the demand for Fios, we're working to bring it to more and more premises within our footprint.

In addition, we recently announced an initiative with Tillman that will enable us to bring our best-in-class Fios broadband offerings to even more households and businesses. The agreement combines Tillman's network design, build and operations capabilities with Verizon scale, distribution strength and brand power. We will focus on markets outside of the Verizon and Frontier footprint, expanding our Fios business to new places across the country and driving more convergence in these markets.

Fixed Wireless Access net adds were 261,000 for the quarter. With approximately 5.4 million FWA subscribers, our annualized revenue has surpassed $3 billion and continues to grow. We believe FWA can be a long-term sustainable business. In addition, we recently announced an agreement to acquire Starry, which will enhance our MDU capabilities, combining our scale and resources with Starry's technical and go-to-market expertise.

Moving to financials. Our third quarter performance keeps us on track to deliver on our financial guidance for the year. Third quarter consolidated revenue was $33.8 billion, up 1.5% from the prior year period. We delivered over $400 million of year-over-year wireless service revenue growth in the quarter. Wireless equipment revenue was 5.2% higher than the prior year, driven by higher gross adds and upgrade rates. Wireless service revenue was up 2.1% from the prior year, driven by continued ARPU growth from targeted pricing actions and further adoption of fixed wireless access and add-on services. Perks continued to provide a high-margin revenue stream, and we look forward to offering additional benefits for our customers. Additionally, prepaid revenue grew year-over-year for the first time since the TracFone acquisition. As expected, we faced the promo amortization headwind in the quarter, and we expect this headwind to continue. However, our underlying customer economics remain healthy.

On the expense side, we have work to do to further reduce our cost of services and SG&A. As Dan will outline, we will be looking at cost with the new lens and will be focused on driving significant cost savings across all aspects of our business. Consolidated adjusted EBITDA was $12.8 billion, up 2.3% year-over-year. Year-to-date, we have generated almost $1.3 billion more in adjusted EBITDA compared to 2024, driven by a combination of pricing actions and cost reduction. Our adjusted EBITDA growth of 3.5% through the end of the third quarter is at the top end of our guided range. Adjusted EPS was $1.21 in the quarter, up 1.7% year-over-year, driven by growth in adjusted EBITDA.

The cash generation of the business continues to be strong. Cash flow from operating activities was $28 billion for the first 9 months of the year, up over $1.5 billion or 5.8% compared to the same period a year ago. CapEx through the end of the third quarter totaled $12.3 billion compared to $12 billion in the prior year period. We're on track to meet all of our investment goals for the year and deliver within our guided range or better. The combination of our continued CapEx efficiency and our ability to drive profits to the bottom line resulted in third quarter free cash flow of $7 billion. This represents a nearly 17% improvement year-over-year and the highest reported in our industry by nearly $2 billion for the period. For the first 3 quarters of the year, we have generated $15.8 billion in free cash flow, an increase of 9% compared to the same period a year ago. In September, we raised the dividend for the 19th consecutive year reflecting our continued commitment to shareholder returns.

Net unsecured debt at the end of the quarter was $112 billion, a $9.4 billion improvement year-over-year. We continue to make meaningful reductions to our debt throughout the year, resulting in our net unsecured debt to consolidated adjusted EBITDA ratio dropping to 2.2x as of the end of the third quarter. This puts us inside of our target leverage ahead of schedule and before the Frontier closing. We're focused on generating strong cash flow and committed to paying down our debt. We also remain committed to our long-term net unsecured leverage target range of 2.0 to 2.25x. This is not going to change.

Looking ahead, we remain on track to close the Frontier deal in the first quarter of 2026. We have received approvals from 11 of 13 states and are making good progress in the remaining jurisdictions. Integration planning is on track. And through the third quarter, based on their public disclosures, Frontier is performing extremely well across both their fiber build and customer growth. While we continue to execute within the parameters of our financial guidance, we recognize there is significant opportunity ahead.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Dan.

Daniel Schulman
Director & CEO

Thank you, Tony.

When I look at our performance objectively, Verizon is clearly falling short of our potential. And as a result, we are not delivering the shareholder returns our investors expect. Despite investing significantly in network leadership, we have not been able to translate that into winning in the market. And consequently, we are not generating the financial profile necessary for share price appreciation. Our stock performance reflects this reality. My mandate from the Board is clear: unlock the growth potential of our platform while delivering strong financial results.

Today, I intend to discuss my priorities and areas of focus. Our plan will not be about incremental change. We intend to aggressively transform the culture and financial profile of our company operating under the principles of being bold, customer-centric and executing with financial discipline with a focus on shareholder value. For the past few years, our financial growth has relied too heavily on price increases, a strategic approach that relies too much on price without subscriber growth is not a sustainable strategy. Every year, it gets harder to grow as we lap past price increases and experience higher churn. This cannot continue, and there is no question that meaningful change is needed. As we shift to a customer-first culture, we will simultaneously drive a much more efficient cost structure, that fully supports our incremental investments in delighting our customers. I reject the premise that delighting customers and winning in the market means that margins will decrease. I think this industry and clearly, Verizon are only scratching the surface of increased bottom line performance.

My top strategic imperative for Verizon is to grow our customer base profitably across our mobility and broadband subscription businesses. I strongly believe that growing volumes is essential to drive sustainable long-term revenue and adjusted EPS growth. We are going to compete and grow responsibly across all market segments. And over time, meaningfully increase our share of net adds, particularly in postpaid. We aim to win fairly by having the best overall value proposition and delighting our customers across all elements of the marketing mix. This is not going to be about promotional activities that can be quickly imitated. It is about true innovation, not easily replicated by our competitors.

We will leverage our network excellence to drive growth, but we cannot rely on it exclusively. Network quality is now foundational. Winning in the marketplace demands a revamped and superior customer value proposition and requires full attention to the entire customer experience. We will significantly elevate our game across multiple dimensions. We will work relentlessly to serve our customers, ensuring that every customer is fully satisfied with their Verizon experience. We must make it much easier to do business with us. You should expect bold execution powered by sophisticated and smart marketing, actions that strengthen loyalty and the elimination of practices and processes that detract from the customer experience. Raising rates without corresponding value rarely, if ever, delights customers.

Our primary objective is to build loyalty and drive significant improvements in retention to optimize the lifetime value of our customer base. Verizon will no longer be the hunting ground for competitors looking to gain share. We are reinventing how we operate to make Verizon more agile and efficient. You should expect disciplined execution across marketing, operations and service. We will invest significantly across all elements of our marketing mix and customer experience to drive mobility and broadband growth, and we will fund these investments by aggressively reducing our entire cost base. We will be a simpler, leaner and scrappier business. This work is overdue and will be multi-year and an ongoing way of life for us.

In addition, as some of you know, I am a strong believer in the growing power and resulting opportunities created by AI. We have barely scratched the surface of how AI-powered innovation can transform our customer experience. I intend to use AI as a key tool to simplify offers, improve the customer experience and reduce churn through smart, consistent and more personalized marketing and offers. And we will leverage AI throughout the company to make it easier for our employees to delight our customers and to dramatically improve service of reducing cost and complexity across the vast majority of our business processes. While we narrow our focus to invest in key growth areas, we will also aggressively sunset or exit legacy businesses where we don't see a clear path, profitable market leadership. We have a large opportunity to unleash meaningful margin improvement by doing so. And we will talk about this in more detail in January.

Convergence is one of our most significant near-term growth opportunities. The pending acquisition of Frontier will enable us to serve approximately 29 million fiber passings, creating a massive cross-sell opportunity. Our wireless share significantly under-indexes in Frontier's territory, and we intend to address this on day 1. This will create a significant runway to capture mobility volume from our broadband customers and cross-sell broadband to our existing mobility base, driving meaningful revenue synergies. I recently met with the Frontier senior leadership team. Their focus and performance is impressive. The results are trending above the expectations when we signed the deal, and I am looking forward to having them join the Verizon team. We will continue to expand our fiber footprint through our own build and with strategic partnerships.

I expect the actions we are taking will enable us to generate higher free cash flow in 2026 and 2025, even when we include Frontier. Our business is generating strong cash flow today, but I believe it can be even stronger. I am committed to prioritizing the customer experience, while maximizing returns for our shareholders and doing both in a fiscally responsible manner. I am closely examining not just our operating expenses, but also our capital spend, and our capital allocation framework. I believe that elements within our framework can change to optimize our capital structure and shareholder returns.

This includes an ironclad commitment to our dividend, continued debt repayment and value-creating capital return. In short, we will be much more deliberate in how we allocate our spend to execute our strategy. Of course, we'll continue to invest in the business and we will do so with a critical eye towards growth areas. You can expect our capital envelope to support the completion of our C-band build-out and our long-term objectives for fiber expansion, while preserving our financial capacity and flexibility for strategic investments as the landscape evolves.

To summarize, we understand changes needed, and we are aggressively making those changes. Our goals and our priorities are clear. First, delighting our customers to meaningfully increase our share of industry net adds. Second, cost transformation, fundamentally restructuring our expense base. Third, capital efficiency, optimizing how and where we invest and fourth, accelerating shareholder returns by increasing our bottom line growth, and a steadfast commitment to our dividend. You can expect to see a tangible difference in the way Verizon competes. Going forward, we will aggressively compete and fundamentally redefine what it means to be a Verizon customer. I'm confident in our strategy, our assets and the team's ability to execute. We have the network, the scale, the brand and now the strategic clarity and commitment to drive sustainable growth.

We are planning to win, and this will be a different Verizon than the market is used to. This will not happen overnight, and there's no one silver bullet. It will require hard work, strategic focus and thoughtful execution. Importantly, much of the critical planning and evaluation is already well underway. We will provide 2026 guidance during our January earnings call and we will report progress against these objectives quarterly. Our shareholders and our customers have been patient. It is now time for us to deliver.

Thank you, and Tony and I look forward to your questions and comments.

Brady Connor
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Brad, we're ready for questions.