Hasbro, Inc. (HAS) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 23, 2025 8:30 AM EDT

Company Participants

Frederick Wightman - Vice President of Investor Relations
Chris Cocks - CEO & Director
Gina Goetter - CFO & COO

Conference Call Participants

Megan Christine Alexander - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Arpine Kocharyan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Stephen Laszczyk - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Christopher Horvers - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
James Hardiman - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Alexander Perry - BofA Securities, Research Division
Kylie Cohu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Jaime Katz - Morningstar Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. Welcome to Hasbro's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Fred Wightman, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Frederick Wightman
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Joining me today are Chris Cocks, Hasbro's Chief Executive Officer; and Gina Goetter, Hasbro's Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.

Today, we will begin with Chris and Gina providing commentary on the company's performance, and then we'll take your questions. Our earnings release and presentation slides for today's call are posted on our investor website. The press release and presentation include information regarding non-GAAP adjustments and non-GAAP financial measures.

Our call today will discuss certain adjusted measures, which exclude these non-GAAP adjustments. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in the press release and presentation. Please note that whenever we discuss earnings per share or EPS, we are referring to earnings per diluted share.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that during this call and the question-and-answer session that follows, members of Hasbro management may make forward-looking statements concerning management's expectations, goals, objectives and similar matters. There are many factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements.

These factors include those set forth in our annual report on Form 10-K, our most recent 10-Q, in today's press release and in our other public disclosures. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made today to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this call.

I'd now like to introduce Chris Cocks. Chris?

Chris Cocks
CEO & Director

Thanks, Fred, and good morning. Hasbro delivered another strong quarter in Q3, extending our growth trajectory in 2025. Net revenue and operating profit both showed robust year-over-year gains, underscoring the power of our Playing to Win strategy, which positions Hasbro as a diversified digitally forward play company uniquely resilient in today's tariff-sensitive market.

Key drivers were MAGIC, Marvel, MONOPOLY, PEPPA PIG, Beyblade and G.I. JOE. Brands exemplifying durable, diversified growth that differentiate Hasbro from traditional competitors. Year-to-date, revenue is up 7% and adjusted operating profit has increased 14%. We anticipate full year revenue growth in the high single digits and adjusted operating profit growth exceeding 20%. MAGIC continues to outperform expectations, posting 40% growth year-to-date. This success is fueled by unprecedented new player acquisition and standout collaborations with brands like Spider-Man and Final Fantasy.

Our Universes Beyond strategy, leveraging MAGIC's depth with beloved IPs is generating extraordinary engagement. Looking ahead, we'll build on this momentum in 2026 with original MAGIC IP sets and blockbuster collaborations, including Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, The Hobbit, Star Trek and Marvel Superheroes. Interest indicators like event attendance, search metrics, MagicCon participation, sales in new channels like mass and convenience and player growth are all at record levels.

We expect momentum to continue into the fourth quarter, fueled by upcoming MAGIC releases, including The Last Airbender and Final Fantasy's holiday set, alongside sustained momentum in Secret Lair and backlist offerings. Wizards of the Coast is more than MAGIC. The refreshed 2024 additions of D&D's Monster Manual, Players Handbook and DM Guide are off to the strongest ever start for D&D books. D&D Beyond's new accessible virtual tabletop has driven weekly traffic up nearly 50% since the September launch.

Meanwhile, our digital licensing business, highlighted by Monopoly Go! and our recent launch of SORRY! WORLD with Gameberry Labs continues to outperform with both games topping mobile player charts. In Digital Gaming, the game awards this December will showcase some new announcements from Hasbro, including updates on our upcoming sci-fi RPG EXODUS, further cementing our commitment to innovative digital play experiences. Consumer Products met our Q3 expectations, although retailer shifts pushed some revenue into Q4. We anticipate a solid bounce back in the fourth quarter, driven by innovation, entertainment tie-ins and strategic partnerships.

Key highlights include momentum from PEPPA PIG and Marvel's blockbuster content lineup, steady growth from Beyblade, G.I. JOE's rebound post supplier transition and solid traction for new products like Nano-mals, DJ Furby, baby Evie, Star Wars Kyber Forge Lightsabers (sic) [ Star Wars Lightsaber Forge Kyber ], Priorities and PLAY-DOH Barbie. Retail shelf resets since late August have led to a mid-single-digit POS increase entering the holiday season and share gains for Hasbro across our focus categories. We expect Consumer Products to finish the year down mid-single digits, primarily impacted by tariffs.

However, because of our proactive supply chain diversification initiatives, we expect that by year-end 2026, no single country outside the U.S. will represent more than 1/3 of Hasbro's supply chain. Additionally, new vendor and manufacturing partnerships will unlock attractive pricing opportunities globally from Bodegas in Santiago to Dollar stores in Peoria, expanding our retail footprint and total addressable market significantly. After a long turnaround effort, we expect Q4 to be the start of a long-term growth period for our toys business, driven by innovation, a killer entertainment slate and new partnerships.

Just this week, we announced an exciting collaboration tied to Netflix hit film, KPop Demon Hunters. Product is expected to hit shelves in 2026, but for fans who can't wait, preorders are already live for our MONOPOLY deal card game inspired by the film. In summary, Q3 reinforces that Hasbro's Playing to Win strategy is delivering results. We're confident in our ability to sustain long-term growth through diversified digital initiatives, strategic partnerships and resilience against external pressures.

Before I close, I want to thank our incredible employees and partners around the world. Hasbro's return to growth is a direct result of your creativity, focus and belief in inspiring a lifetime of play. Now over to Gina.

Gina Goetter
CFO & COO

Thanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. We delivered another solid quarter, outperforming expectations on revenue and profit while operating with discipline in a dynamic macro environment. Our results reflect the strength of Wizards, ongoing cost transformation and continued progress toward our 2027 profitability goals. Net revenue in the third quarter was $1.4 billion, up 8% versus last year, driven by double-digit growth in Wizards and steady execution across Consumer Products.

Adjusted operating profit increased 8% to $356 million with an adjusted operating margin of 25.6%, holding steady versus last year despite increased cost pressure. Adjusted earnings per diluted share were $1.68, down 3%, driven by a higher tax rate and FX impacts. Year-to-date, total Hasbro revenue is up 7% and adjusted operating profit has increased 14%, underscoring the strength of our diversified portfolio and the impact of our transformation efforts. The growth in MAGIC, coupled with sequential improvement in Consumer Products is fueling our overall financial performance.

Turning to our segments. Wizards once again led our performance in the quarter. Revenue grew 42% to $572 million with broad-based gains across both tabletop and digital. MAGIC revenue increased 55% to $459 million, driven by engagement with our Universes Beyond sets, our core IP Edge of Eternities as well as continued momentum across Secret Lair and backlist products. Operating profit rose 39% to $252 million, delivering an exceptional 44% operating margin, reflecting the positive benefit of scale and mix within the MAGIC portfolio.

Consumer Products navigated a complex quarter, and the team demonstrated agility as we adjusted to delayed on-shelf days from retailers and lapped a difficult comparison last year in licensing. Revenue of $797 million was down 7% versus last year, with growth in Europe offsetting softer performance in North America. Adjusted operating profit was $89 million with an 11.2% margin compared to 15.1% last year. The margin change was driven primarily by tariff expense and unfavorable mix, offset in part by productivity improvements across our supply chain and expense management.

The Entertainment segment delivered revenue of $19 million, up 8% and an adjusted operating margin of 61%, which is consistent with the asset-light model we're building in this segment. Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA stands at $989 million, up 11% versus last year, demonstrating the combined impact of top line growth, operational excellence and disciplined investment. Year-to-date, we generated $490 million in operating cash flow, returned $294 million to shareholders via the dividend and spent $120 million on debt reduction through the combination of bond repurchases and prefunding our 2026 maturity via treasuries, a proactive step that provides flexibility while keeping us ahead of our long-term leverage targets.

We continue to see tangible benefits from our cost transformation efforts. Through the first 9 months, we've delivered approximately $150 million in realized gross savings, keeping us on track to achieve our full year target. Operational efficiencies, expense management and productivity gains across sourcing and logistics are driving strong margin performance even as we absorb higher royalty costs at Wizards and trade-related headwinds in Consumer Products. These savings are translating directly into margin resilience and giving us the flexibility to reinvest behind our highest return growth engines.

We're executing our tariff remediation playbook decisively, mitigating risk and protecting profitability. Maintaining our assumption that the China tariff rate stays at 30% and Vietnam at 20%, we continue to expect $60 million of impact in our 2025 P&L. Owned inventory levels remain healthy and firmly aligned with our year-end targets. We believe we have appropriate inventory in our warehouses to fulfill the anticipated holiday build and replenishment orders. With a robust entertainment lineup scheduled for 2026, we remain laser-focused on exiting the year with clean company-owned and retail inventories.

We are continuing with our diversification efforts to build resiliency across the supply chain and coupling those with the incredible growth in MAGIC. By 2026, we expect approximately 30% of our total Hasbro toy and game revenue will be sourced from China and 30% of our revenue will be based in the U.S. as we opportunistically lean into our U.S. manufacturing capacity. As we enter the final quarter, our momentum remains strong, and we are raising our full year guidance. We now expect Hasbro revenue to grow high single digits with an adjusted operating margin between 22% to 23%. This results in our adjusted EBITDA increasing to approximately $1.25 billion at the midpoint.

For Wizards, we expect full year revenue growth between 36% to 38% with an operating margin of approximately 44%. This improved guidance reflects the MAGIC over delivery in Q3 and sustained engagement and high demand through year-end releases. In Consumer Products, we are holding our latest guidance and continue to expect revenue to decline 5% to 8% year-over-year with margins between 4% to 6% as productivity works to mitigate cost pressures.

Our capital allocation priorities are unchanged. And with our updated outlook, we will likely achieve our 2.5x leverage target at the end of this year. The Board has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.70 per share, consistent with our capital allocation priorities to return cash to shareholders. We remain focused on execution and operational efficiency in our core toy business. At the same time, we're thoughtfully investing for the future with a disciplined returns-driven approach, particularly in Digital Gaming and with strategic partners who help bring our brands to new audiences and categories. We are on track to close the year from a position of strength, delivering profitable growth, deepening engagement in our most valuable brands and advancing toward our long-term financial and strategic goals.

And with that, I'll turn it back to the operator for questions.