Airbnb, Inc. (ABNB) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Angela Yang - Director of Investor Relations
Brian Chesky - Co-Founder, CEO, Head of Community & Chairman of the Board
Ellie Mertz - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Richard Clarke - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Eric Sheridan - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Justin Post - BofA Securities, Research Division
Jed Kelly - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Lloyd Walmsley
Kevin Kopelman - TD Cowen, Research Division
Ronald Josey - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Trevor Young - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Lee Horowitz - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Douglas Anmuth - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Brian Nowak - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Kenneth Gawrelski - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Colin Sebastian - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining Airbnb's earnings conference call for the third quarter of 2025. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor Relations section of Airbnb's website following this call. I will now hand the call over to Angela Yang, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Angela Yang
Director of Investor Relations

Good afternoon, and welcome to Airbnb's Third Quarter of 2025 Earnings Call. Thank you for joining us today. On the call today, we have Airbnb's Co-Founder and CEO, Brian Chesky and our Chief Financial Officer, Eli Mertz. Earlier today, we issued a shareholder letter with our financial results and commentary for our third quarter of 2025.

These items were also posted on the Investor Relations section of Airbnb's website. During the call, we'll make brief opening remarks and then spend the remainder of time on Q&A. Before I turn it over to Brian, I would like to remind everyone that we will be making forward-looking statements on this call that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.

Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors. These factors are described under forward-looking statements in our shareholder letter and in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained on this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. You should be aware that these statements should be considered estimates only and are not a guarantee of future performance.

Also, during the call, we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures. We provided reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the shareholder letter posted to our Investor Relations website. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be a substitute for our GAAP results.

With that, I'll pass the call to Brian.

Brian Chesky
Co-Founder, CEO, Head of Community & Chairman of the Board

All right. Thanks, Angela, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining. I am excited to share that Airbnb had another strong quarter. Revenue increased 10% year-over-year, landing at the high end of our guidance. Adjusted EBITDA was over $2 billion, and this is our highest in any quarter ever. Gross booking value increased 14% year-over-year, while nights and seats booked rose by 9%. Both metrics accelerated in Q2, and they both exceeded our expectations, and they were driven by the strength in the U.S. market and ADR.

We are driving this growth by focusing on 4 key areas: making our service better, bringing Airbnb to more parts of the world, expanding what we offer and integrating AI across our app. So what I want to do is I'm going to share just a few highlights on each of these 4 growth levers. First, we're making Airbnb better for our hosting guests. So we know that the better our product is, the more people use it. And since last -- this past May, we didn't stop. In fact, we accelerated development by making 65 major improvements that we think will help further drive growth. And here are just a few of them.

We know that guests want more flexibility in ways that they can pay. So we introduced Reserve now Pay Later in the United States. And not unexpectedly, this helped drive licenses booked in Q3. So we're going to continue to roll it out more broadly next year. We also announced improved maps. One of the things we noticed was a lot of people were coming to Airbnb. They didn't have enough context on the map on Airbnb and we were leaving our app, going to Google Apple Maps somewhere else. And sometimes it wouldn't come back to our app. So we built a lot more context about our map on Airbnb. We added nearby landmarks, public transit, restaurants. We even are offering different map views like satellite views, street view, transit view. And this is, we think, going to be a huge user experience improvement and we will keep people on our app and increase conversion.

Finally, we updated our cancellation policy, so it's even easier for hosts to earn more and guests to make changes. Host can now choose a new policy allows guests to cancel for free up to 14 days before check-in. And all guests can cancel free within 24 hours if they booked more than 7 days before check-in. So these changes are reducing a huge amount of customer service cases and increasing annualized bookings. And again, these are just a few of the 65 major improvements that we just made that makes our service better. Number two, we're bringing Airbnb to more parts of the world. International expansion is a multiyear strategy, but we're already off to a great start.

Over the past 12 months, average nights booked in our expansion markets have grown at double the rate of our core markets, and we're also attracting new users to the platform in key markets. For example, first-time bookers were up over 20% in Japan and nearly 50% in India on a year-over-year basis. So this is really encouraging. Number three, we're driving growth by expanding what we offer. In May, we took the first step in expanding Airbnb beyond stage launch of Airbnb services and experiences. Now since then, feedback from guests has been amazing. Service experiences are receiving an average rating of 4.3 out of 5 stars. And now in our core business, it's 4.8 out of 5 stars.

So this is really encouraging and a sign of growth to come. The people love your product, they'll use it more. Service experiences are also bringing more people to the platform. So in Q3, almost half of the people who booked an experience did not have an Airbnb stay. So we're giving people another reason to use Airbnb. And we're also scaling supply of high-quality service experiences. In fact, we received over 110,000 applications from potential hosts. So not only do we think the demand is going to be there, the supply is there as well. And that has almost doubled last quarter, 110,000 applications. And it means people see the value of reaching new customers through Airbnb. But we're not just adding more service experiences. We know one of the top reasons guests book experiences because they want to meet other people. So we're making experiences more social.

Now before a guest books an experience, we're going to show them who else is going and where they're from. So guests can also request to directly message other guests they met during an experience to keep in touch or plan their experience right in the app. In the connection section of the Airbnb Profiles tab, guests can see the people they've met on experiences, so it's easy to reconnect. And this is really just about giving guests what they want and doing what Airbnb does best, which is bringing people together in the real world.

Now outside of service experiences, we're also launching hotels in Airbnb. While a small number of hotels are listed in Airbnb in the past, we haven't had a true hotels business until now. We started with a hotel pilot in L.A., New York City and Madrid, and we're partnering directly with boutique and independent hotels. As part of this pilot, we've improved how hotels show up on Airbnb with new search filters, updated hotel page displays and the ability to choose the room types. So in other words, we built a custom-built product just for hotels. We've also been actively recruiting hotels in key markets where there aren't a lot of Airbnbs. And our goal is to fill the gaps where hotels make more sense for guests like a night's stay trip in the middle of the city.

Finally, we're integrating Airbnb -- sorry, finally, we're integrating AI extensively across the app. Over the past year, we've been laying the foundation for a more intelligent, more personalized Airbnb from rebuilding our tech stack to launching a series of new AI features. We now have more than a dozen AI work streams underway, and they're all focused on really creating a more personal experience for guests and hosts and making it easier to discover what we offer. Now this is part of a major transformation for Airbnb, and I want to share just 2 highlights from Q3 with regard to AI. This quarter, we rolled out smarter and faster AI customer support.

Our AI customer support assistant has smarter responses. It includes answers your reservation or listing and also provides quicker, more personalized responses. It also lets you take common actions like canceling or changing reservation dates directly from the chat. So what we did is we designed this custom user interface that's not just text-based, but it's got rich user interface modules. So it's a really custom-built AI interface built right into the messaging platform.

Now we initially launched this in the United States, where it's already reduced people's need to contact a human agent by 15%. So now we're going to expand it to more countries in more language, and we expect this to be in over 50 languages next year. Now we're also building out AI-powered search. And this is a really, really big part of our AI strategy. You're going to see this. We're testing it now. You'll see this rolling out through the app next year. And this will let people have a conversation with the app, just like a chatbot about what they're looking for, so we can help them design the perfect trip. And remember that we have access to all the same models that every other chatbot and AI application has.

So we think this is going to be a really delightful product to use. Now this is just the beginning of a much bigger AI strategy because we're integrating AI across our app to make it smarter and more personal and easier to use. But I think what makes our approach different is that we're not just using AI to pull people deeper into the screens. We're using it to get them off their phones and help them connect to the real world. Because I believe in the age of AI, more and more, what's going to happen is what's on a screen will be artificial. You won't know if it's real or not. In the age of AI, people are going to increasingly want what's real and what's real is in real life. They're going to create real experience with real people in the real world.

And I think that's especially true for younger generations who grew up on social media are now surrounded by AI-generated content. So we think Airbnb is the best way to experience the magic of the real world. So while other companies are using AI to keep you online, we're really trying to do the opposite, get you off your phone and into the real world. And so in that sense, a bet on Airbnb is a bet on AI because it's a bet that the more AI proliferates the content we consume on devices, the more people are going to earn for real connection with real people in the real world. So with that, I'll turn it over to Ellie.

Ellie Mertz
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Brian, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll start with a review of our Q3 financial results, and then I'll walk through our outlook for Q4. As Brian mentioned, Q3 was another strong quarter for Airbnb. Gross booking value grew 14% year-over-year to $22.9 billion, driven by strong growth in both bookings and price. Nights and seats booked increased 9% year-over-year, representing a 2-point sequential acceleration from Q2, primarily due to the strength in the U.S.

In Q3, nights growth across each of our major regions remained steady or accelerated sequentially. Latin America grew in the low 20s. Asia Pacific grew in the mid-teens, and both North America and EMEA were up in the mid-single digits. Notably, we saw a meaningful acceleration in the U.S. from Q2 to Q3, in part due to the launch of our Reserve now Pay Later payment offering. Now turning to our Q3 financials. Revenue for the quarter was $4.1 billion, up 10% year-over-year. In terms of profitability, we generated $2.1 billion of adjusted EBITDA, representing a 50% EBITDA margin. And finally, net income was $1.4 billion, while EPS was $2.21, growing 4% year-over-year. Now net income was impacted by a onetime $213 million valuation allowance related to corporate alternative minimum tax credits as a result of the enactment of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act on July 4.

On a go-forward basis, starting in 2026, we anticipate that the One Big Beautiful Bill will materially reduce our effective tax rate due to the preferential changes to tax on foreign earnings. Next, I'll turn to our balance sheet and cash flow. We continue to generate significant cash in Q3, delivering $1.3 billion of free cash flow. Over the past 12 months, we've generated $4.5 billion, representing a free cash flow margin of 38%. At the end of Q3, we had $11.7 billion of corporate cash and investments as well as $7.2 billion of funds held on behalf of our guests. Our strong balance sheet allowed us to repurchase $857 million of our common stock during the quarter. And during the trailing 12 months, we have repurchased over $3.5 billion of our common stock, using approximately 3/4 of our free cash flow.

We believe returning capital to shareholders is a key component of our capital allocation strategy, reflecting our confidence in the business and our commitment to delivering long-term value. As of the end of Q3, we still had $6.6 billion remaining on our repurchase authorization. Since introducing our share repurchase program in 2022, we've reduced our fully diluted share count by 8%. Now let's shift to our Q4 and full year 2025 outlook. As we start the fourth quarter, we're encouraged by the continued momentum. Despite more difficult year-over-year comps, we're seeing strength in longer lead time bookings, partly driven by our Reserve now pay later offering in the U.S. The strength in bookings support our positive outlook for the rest of the year.

In Q4, we expect to generate revenue of $2.66 billion to $2.72 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 7% to 10%. This includes a small foreign exchange tailwind after factoring in our hedges. We expect our GMV to grow low double digits year-over-year, benefiting from a small -- or excuse me, from a modest increase in ADR due to price appreciation and FX as well as continued growth in nights and seats booked. For Q4, we anticipate year-over-year growth of nights and seats booked in the mid-single-digit range. Last year, we saw a meaningful acceleration of growth from Q3 to Q4. Our Q4 2025 guide takes this tougher comp into consideration. But on a year-over-2-year basis, we do anticipate a sequential acceleration from Q3 to Q4.

On profitability, we now expect our full year adjusted EBITDA margin to be approximately 35%, up from the 34.5% floor previously shared. As we look forward to 2026, we're focused on maintaining strong margins while continuing to invest in growth initiatives. We will share more about our 2026 outlook on the next earnings call in February. In closing, our Q3 results demonstrate our disciplined execution across our strategic priorities as we continue to build a stronger company for the long term. And with that, I will open it up to Q&A.