American Eagle Outfitters, Inc. (AEO) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 2, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Judy Meehan - Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications & Investor Relations
Jay Schottenstein - Executive Chairman of the Board & CEO
Jennifer Foyle - President and Executive Creative Director of AE & Aerie
Mike Mathias - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Kelly Crago - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Jungwon Kim - TD Cowen, Research Division
Rakesh Patel - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Christopher Nardone - BofA Securities, Research Division
Alexandra Straton - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Janet Kloppenburg - JJK Research Associates, Inc.
Janine Hoffman Stichter - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Corey Tarlowe - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to the AEO Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Judy Meehan, Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. Please go ahead.

Judy Meehan
Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications & Investor Relations

Good afternoon, everyone. Joining me today for our prepared remarks are Jay Schottenstein, Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jen Foyle, President, Executive Creative Director for American Eagle and Aerie; and Mike Mathias, Chief Financial Officer. Before we begin today's call, I need to remind you that we will make certain forward-looking statements. These statements are based upon information that represents the company's current expectations or beliefs.

The results actually realized may differ materially based on risk factors included in our SEC filings. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Also, please note that during this call and in the accompanying press release, certain financial metrics are presented on both a GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted basis.

Reconciliations of adjusted results to the GAAP results are available in the tables attached to the earnings release, which is posted on our corporate website at www.aeo-inc.com in the Investor Relations section. Here, you can also find our third quarter investor presentation. And now I'll turn the call over to Jay.

Jay Schottenstein
Executive Chairman of the Board & CEO

Thanks, Judy, and good afternoon. I hope everyone had an enjoyable Thanksgiving weekend. I'm extremely pleased with the trend change we've seen across brands, reflecting a number of decisive steps we've taken from merchandising to marketing to operations. These deliberate actions are having a positive impact on our near-term results and also serve us well for the long run. We delivered record revenue in the third quarter and very strong momentum has carried into the fourth quarter. We're seeing an encouraging response to the newness the teams are delivering with each new collection gaining steam, most notably, Aerie and Offline are generating exceptional growth across categories.

As discussed last quarter, we have made incremental investments in advertising, which is contributing to stronger demand while better positioning our business for enhanced long-term brand awareness and overall customer engagement. At the same time, we are focused on operational improvements and cost efficiencies to drive higher profitability in what continues to be a dynamic macro environment. Turning to the quarter. Total revenue increased 6% to $1.4 billion, a third quarter record.

Operating income of $113 million exceeded our guidance of $95 million to $100 million, fueled by higher-than-expected demand and well-controlled costs. As previously noted, our results also included about $20 million of net impact from tariffs. Diluted EPS for the quarter of $0.53 increased 10% compared to the adjusted EPS last year. The strong top line reflected a return to positive comps, which increased 4%. This was a meaningful acceleration from the 1% decrease last quarter. Improvement was made across both brands and channels, all posting positive comps.

Aerie's 11% comp in the third quarter was a real standout where strong demand was broad-based across all categories. Growth accelerated throughout the period, which has continued into the fourth quarter, where we are seeing exceptional demand so far. As we look to the future, we continue to see untapped opportunities within Aerie and Offline, which are rapidly emerging as important customer destinations. At just under $2 billion in revenue and less than 5% market share, this indicates a significant runway for future expansion, underscoring our ability to capture a much larger piece of the market as we execute our strategic initiatives.

American Eagle's comp growth of 1% marked a sequential improvement from last quarter. Strength in jeans, coupled with better results in men's were among the drivers. As Jen will review, AE's business strengthened with greater in-stocks in our strongest sellers and new product flows. Positive trends have continued so far in the fourth quarter, including a terrific Thanksgiving weekend. Beyond product, our results have benefited from the success of our recent marketing campaigns, which have driven engagement and attracted new customers.

We are encouraged by the impact of the campaigns and collaborations with Sydney Sweeney and Travis Kelce and now holiday gifting with Martha Stewart. We see measurable benefits, especially across our digital channels. Looking forward, we will build on this momentum with more exciting campaigns ahead. All in all, I'm very pleased with the progress and meaningful turnaround from the first half of this year. Now the holiday season is upon us, and the fourth quarter is off to an excellent start.

We are seeing a clear acceleration from the third quarter, including a record Thanksgiving weekend with strong performance across brands and channels. As a result, we are raising our fourth quarter outlook. We remain well positioned with exciting new collections centered on gift-giving and events planned throughout the season to continue to delight our customers. Before I turn it over to Jen, I want to take a moment to acknowledge our incredible team for all their hard work and tremendous dedication. Their efforts have fueled a meaningful trend change across our leading brands.

Great work continues, and I couldn't be more optimistic about the long-term outlook for our business. We look forward to driving more success as we head into 2026 and beyond, driving profitable growth and enhanced value for AEO. Let me turn it over to Jen.

Jennifer Foyle
President and Executive Creative Director of AE & Aerie

Thank you, Jay, and good afternoon, everyone. I am very encouraged by the stronger performance across our brands, marking a significant turnaround from the first half of the year. This demonstrates the resilience and product leadership of our portfolio of iconic brands. The increasing customer demand, which has accelerated in the fourth quarter, is spanning new and existing customers, fueled by a well-coordinated effort across both merchandising and marketing. Compelling product collections, combined with higher engagement and expanding brand awareness are driving our performance.

And the teams are executing very well, leveraging our expertise in key categories and most importantly, by listening to our customers. Let me walk you through a few highlights in the third quarter, beginning with Aerie. The Aerie brand continues to exceed expectations. We achieved record revenue with the third quarter comps up 11%, fueled by strength across all categories, including intimates, apparel, sleep and Offline. Aerie and Offline's performance has been especially impressive with a meaningful acceleration in demand since the spring season.

In fact, comps have strengthened with each new delivery. The resurgence in intimates has been very encouraging with solid growth in both bras and undies. Greater depth and breadth of our signature fabrications, strength in new fashion across bralettes and bra tops and fun prints with matchbacks to apparel are just a few highlights fueling the brand's double-digit growth. Aerie apparel remained consistently strong, driven by bottoms, fleece, tees and sleep, which has emerged as a powerful growth category.

Offline by Aerie also continues to gain meaningful mind share as we expand awareness and move into newer markets. We remain highly focused on growing the Activewear segment. We are building on our signature fabrics and franchises such as our core leggings while also launching newness with updated fashion silhouettes. Needless to say, we are very excited about our future for both Aerie and Offline. We are well positioned for the remainder of the holiday season and continue to believe in the substantial long-term opportunities ahead.

Now moving to American Eagle, which posted a positive 1% third quarter comp, demonstrating a meaningful improvement from the spring season. Positive demand was fueled by trend right new fall collection combined with bold marketing and exciting product collaborations. Underpinned by our dominance in denim, our strategies to reset the brand and firmly position American Eagle at the center of culture are beginning to yield results.

The quarter marked an improvement in our men's business, where we saw nice wins across tops, sweaters, fleece, graphics and knits, all areas we have been working to recapture. Bottoms provided a stable foundation with jeans and non-denim pants trending positive. And favorable trends have continued into the fourth quarter, reflecting the positive reception of our new product. In women's, although we had a very good back-to-school season, the quarter in total was not as strong. Robust demand early in the period led to a number of out of stocks in some of our best-selling items.

Non-denim bottoms, shirts and dresses proved more challenging, while knit and fleece tops as well as jeans were positive highlights where we continue to see strong demand. And importantly, better in-stocks late in the quarter drove positive results, which have continued into the fourth quarter. AE is a true holiday destination with amazing gift-giving focus combined with fun fashion and party dressing. The response to date has been highly encouraging. Now shifting gears to marketing. This fall season, American Eagle launched its largest, most impactful advertising campaigns ever, which are delivering results.

By collaborating with high-profile partners who are defining culture, we are attracting more customers and have more eyes on the brand than ever before. Combined, the Sydney Sweeney and Travis Kelce partnerships have garnered more than 44 billion impressions. Total customer counts are up across brands and customer loyalty grew 4% in the quarter. AE is clearly building long-term awareness and desirability and has captured the attention of both new and existing customers.

Traffic has also increased consistently throughout the quarter, which is most evident within our digital selling channels that include both AE and Aerie. Although it's still early days of our renewed marketing strategy, we know that having the right talent amplifies our brand and product at key moments. We are very encouraged by our progress and expect to continue fueling brand excitement into 2026 and beyond.

Our recent holiday campaign with Martha Stewart is yet another example of how we are creating fun moments to delight our customers while reinforcing our position as the go-to gifting destination. The holiday season is in full swing. And as Jay mentioned, we are encouraged with the results so far. We are heads down and focused on the rest of the year to deliver long-term sales and bottom line growth. Thanks to our amazing teams, and thanks to all of you for your ongoing support. I wish everyone a happy and healthy holiday season. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Mike.

Mike Mathias
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to see the steady progress throughout our business, which led to strong revenue and profit above our expectations in the third quarter. In addition to generating a meaningful top line improvement, we successfully controlled costs, created efficiencies, managed promotions and navigated through a highly dynamic sourcing environment, minimizing the impact of tariffs.

Consolidated revenue of $1.36 billion increased 6% to last year, fueled by comparable sales growth of 4%, with Aerie up 11% and AE up 1%. We saw growth in transactions across brands driven by higher traffic. The average unit retail price was flat to last year. Gross profit dollars of $552 million increased 5%, reflecting higher demand. The gross margin declined 40 basis points to 40.5% compared to 40.9% last year. Net tariff pressure was as expected at $20 million or 150 basis points.

Higher markdowns were largely offset by positive sales growth and lower non-tariff costs, including favorability in freight. Buying, occupancy and warehousing leveraged 20 basis points due to higher sales and a continued focus on operational improvements. For example, we drove lower cost per shipment within our direct business, which has been an area of ongoing focus. SG&A increased 10% due to investment in advertising as previously discussed.

With our focus on long-term brand benefits, the campaigns are already delivering results and helping to advance our goal of expanding our reach and generating growth across brands. The balance of expense is leveraged, reflecting our ongoing cost management program. Operating income of $113 million was above our guidance of $95 million to $100 million, driven by stronger-than-expected demand. The operating margin of 8.3% declined from an adjusted margin of 9.6% last year.

Consolidated ending inventory cost was up 11% with units up 8%. Inventory is balanced across brands, reflecting better in-stocks for American Eagle jeans, new store openings and the demand acceleration at Aerie and Offline. The increase in cost includes the impact of tariffs. Third quarter CapEx totaled $70 million, bringing year-to-date spend to $202 million. We continue to expect CapEx of approximately $275 million for the year. As a reminder, this includes a onetime spend of about $40 million to relocate our New York design center as we previously disclosed.

We're on track to open 22 Aerie and 26 Offline stores, which are coming out of the gate quite strong. We'll complete about 50 AE store remodels with full upgrades to our modern design. A few great examples of recent store upgrades are the Aventura Mall and Sawgrass Mills in Miami and our new SoHo location in New York City. All of these A+ stores are among our best, and we want to ensure the customer experience is unmatched.

The upgraded footprints have allowed us to showcase our signature brands, AE Aerie and Offline. We're utilizing new technologies to elevate the shopping journey and create a cohesive and modern retail experience. Overall, our remodeling program is generating comps nicely above the average. As we continue to position our fleet for profitable growth, we're also on track to close about 35 lower productivity AE stores. Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged, and we're focused on prudently investing in growth to continue to build our brands while returning excess cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.

As a reminder, during the first half of this year, share repurchases totaled $231 million and year-to-date dividend payments have totaled $64 million. We have a strong balance sheet and ended the period with cash of $113 million and total liquidity of approximately $560 million. Now turning to our outlook. The fourth quarter is off to an excellent start. As the team noted, we're encouraged by the broad-based strength across brands and channels with particular strength in Aerie and Offline.

Our inventory and product offerings are well positioned to deliver a successful holiday season, and we're all focused on achieving a strong fourth quarter result. Based on quarter-to-date sales trends and the recognition that we have important selling weeks still ahead, we are raising our fourth quarter operating income guidance to a range of $155 million to $160 million based on comp sales growth of 8% to 9% with similar growth in total revenue. Guidance includes approximately $50 million of incremental tariff costs.

Buying, occupancy and warehousing costs are expected to increase due to new store growth for Aerie and Offline and increased digital penetration. SG&A is expected to increase in the low to mid-single digits, driven by investments in advertising. Given the top line strength, we expect both BOW and SG&A to leverage in the fourth quarter. The tax rate is estimated to be approximately 28% and the weighted average share count will be roughly 173 million.

To wrap up our prepared remarks, clearly, we're very encouraged by the progress made across our brands. We're highly focused on delivering the remainder of the year, driving strong profit flow-through and sustaining this momentum into 2026. Now we'll open up the call for questions.