Atlas Energy Solutions Inc. (AESI) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Kyle Turlington - Vice President of Investor Relations
John Turner - President, CEO & Director
Blake McCarthy - Chief Financial Officer
Ben Brigham - Founder & Executive Chairman
Tim Ondrak
Bud Brigham

Conference Call Participants

James Rollyson - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Derek Podhaizer - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Stephen Gengaro - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Doug Becker - Capital One Securities, Inc., Research Division
Keith MacKey - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Sean Mitchell - Daniel Energy Partners, LLC
Edward Kim - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Lee Cooperman

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Atlas Energy Solutions Third Quarter 2025 Financial and Operational Results Conference Call.

[Operator Instructions]

Please note, this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to your host, Kyle Turlington. Please go ahead.

Kyle Turlington
Vice President of Investor Relations

Hello, and welcome to the Atlas Energy Solutions Conference Call and Webcast for the Third Quarter of 2025.

With us today are John Turner, President and CEO; Blake McCarthy, Executive Vice President and CFO; and Bud Brigham, Executive Chair. We will be sharing their comments on the company's operational and financial performance for the third quarter of 2025, after which we will open the call for Q&A.

Before we begin our prepared remarks, I would like to remind everyone that this call will include forward-looking statements as defined under the U.S. securities laws.

Such statements are based on the current information and management's expectations as of this statement and are not guarantees of future performance.

Forward-looking statements involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. As such, our actual outcomes and results could differ materially.

You can learn more about these risks in the annual report on Form 10-K we filed with the SEC on February 25, 2025, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first quarter and second quarter, our other quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and our other SEC filings.

You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.

We will also make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA, adjusted free cash flow, and other operating metrics and statistics.

You will find the GAAP reconciliation comments and calculations in yesterday's press release. With that said, I will turn the call over to John Turner.

John Turner
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Kyle. Before we begin our prepared remarks, I'd like to extend our deepest condolences to David Smith's family and our friends at Pickering Energy Partners.

Dave was more than a respected analyst. He was a true friend. His kindness, humor, and generosity touched everyone fortunate enough to know him. We are deeply saddened by his loss. Godspeed, David.

For the quarter, Atlas generated $40.2 million of adjusted EBITDA on $260 million of revenue, delivering a 15% adjusted EBITDA margin.

Despite an exceptionally weak West Texas completions market, we generated meaningful adjusted free cash flow, a clear statement of the strength of our competitive moat with our cost-advantaged mines and integrated logistics network.

Our third-quarter volumes came in at 5.25 million tons, a slight sequential decline from the second quarter, but a significant deviation from our expectations, which were based on completion schedules communicated to us by our customers.

As more of our customers shift to fixed percentage contracts, we're increasingly dependent on tight alignment and transparency with their plans.

During the quarter, several key customers made the tough but prudent call to slow or pause completion activity into 2026 to preserve 2025 capital budgets.

We expect fourth-quarter volumes to step down again sequentially due to typical seasonality and a continuation of customer intention to slow capital spend on completions, thus pushing those expected volumes into 2026.

However, encouragingly, we have seen some customers who paused all completions activity earlier in the year resume operations in October. Our current estimate for our fourth quarter sand volumes is approximately 4.8 million tons, which we forecast to be our low point during the cycle.

Customers have already begun communicating their early 2026 plans, which imply improving volumes early in the calendar.

OpEx per ton, including royalties, rose to $13.52, driven primarily by challenges with the dredge feed and wet shed at Kermit. These issues triggered elevated third-party service costs and downtime that inflated Kermit's operating costs, particularly in September.

While we continue to deal with these issues in October, the plant is returning to a more normal state of operations, and we expect these cost pressures to ease as the quarter progresses.

Importantly, we remain on track to take delivery and commission 2 new dredges early in the second quarter of 2026, which we expect to unlock significant capacity and cost efficiencies.

Our logistics business delivered 5.3 million tons, a modest decline from the second quarter. The well-documented slowdown in Permian completions activity has driven trucking rates to below even COVID-era levels.

We're actively optimizing costs and efficiencies, but we're also intentionally carrying some extra capacity into the fourth quarter to ensure that we're ready to meet anticipated 2026 demand.

The Permian frac crew count, which averaged more than 90 in 2024 and peaked at approximately 95 in March of this year, dropped to around 80 crews entering the third quarter and has likely declined further in the fourth quarter.

With WTI prices trading around $60 and a little incentive for operators to ramp activity, we remain cautious about a broad recovery in early 2026.

But we are increasingly optimistic about our progress in gaining market share through this downturn. That's why owning the lowest cost to produce sand reserves, pairing them with an extensive logistics network, and amplifying it with the Dune Express was central to the strategy.

Downturns are where you grind out the hard yards; up cycles are where you reap the rewards. That's the oil and gas business, and specifically oilfield services for you.

So we're focused on what we can control. We have launched a company-wide initiative to maximize efficiencies with an initial target of $20 million in annual cost savings.

Using our scale and cost advantage, we're attacking the market while competitors pull back. While we will have a more concrete grasp of total wides in the coming weeks, we are well-positioned for our core plants to be highly utilized in 2026, and we are growing more confident by the day that the Dune Express will exceed 10 million tons next year, a major ramp from 2025.

Atlas has now achieved scale in the sand and logistics business, where additional investments currently yield more risk due to the inherent cyclicality of the oil and gas industry.

It has been a tough oil and gas market in the Permian, and incremental growth investments in sand and logistics are not currently justified by the returns available in this pricing environment.

9 months ago, we entered the power business on the thesis that the tailwinds were very broad, deep, and durable.Today, that thesis has proven true, well beyond our original expectations.

The world turns to the oil and gas industry to solve complex energy problems in times of turmoil. Now it's turning into firms with oilfield DNA to close the massive gap in power generation.

Electrification, the resurgence of domestic manufacturing, and now the explosive power demands of AI and computing have turned a capacity-constrained grid into a crisis.

For years, power was a line item, often an afterthought. Today, it's the most critical assumption in any growth model. Relying on the grid now carries unacceptable risk of delays, cost escalation, or outright failure. For large capital projects, dedicated behind-the-meter power is quickly becoming a must-have.

When we entered the power space, we saw this trend coming. Our legacy business generates strong through-cycle cash flows, but it's volatile.

Power offers decades-plus contracts uncorrelated to oilfield swings, delivering a level of stability and sustainability that fundamentally changes Atlas' cash flow profile.

The Moser acquisition wasn't about additional EBITDA. It was about the addition of a base platform on which to build and grow this business.

We've since added significant industry talent and expertise from outside oil and gas, and it's paying off fast. Our opportunity pipeline is now approaching 2 gigawatts in potential projects, and we're in active commercial dialogue for large load, long-term power solutions.

These are customers looking for fully integrated permanent power solutions to power their own significant investments, which are otherwise at risk due to the lack of access to reliable grid power. Atlas is ready to be their solution.

We are targeting having more than 400 megawatts deployed across our power business by early 2027, with the majority under long-term contracts.

In order to achieve this target and indicative of our growing confidence in the pace of negotiations, we have placed an order for more than 240 megawatts of new, more power generation assets with a blue-chip equipment provider.

Meanwhile, our legacy motor fleet, while not high-density, excels at delivering flexible near-term bridge power. In a market starving for generation assets, this capability opens doors.

It lets us solve immediate pain points, builds trust, and pivots the conversations to permanent contracted power, exactly what the market demands and what we're built to deliver.

We have been relatively quiet about the evolution of our power platform for the past several quarters, but the combination of the major platform, the talent we have brought into the organization, the strong macro tailwinds and our opportunity set becoming more concrete has made it apparent this transformation is changing the complexion of Atlas at a pace that is gaining speed faster than we imagined.

This brings me to the subject of the dividend.

As announced last night, we have made the difficult but necessary decision to temporarily suspend the dividend. Returning capital to shareholders has always been a core part of Atlas' DNA.

Management is fully aligned with investors. But our mandate is to maximize long-term value creation for Atlas shareholders. That means protecting our balance sheet and optimizing growth above all else.

While Atlas's base business continues to generate cash in what we believe is our cyclical low for our sand and logistics business, our current level of profitability does not cover the entirety of the dividend.

Additionally, and importantly, the opportunities being presented in the power market are potentially game-changing for Atlas, but they do require capital.

The size of the dividend represents a potential roadblock to our ability to pursue these opportunities and secure optimal financing. The project should bring stable, financeable cash flows and high-quality counterparties, enhancing our ability to resume and sustain shareholder returns, and maximizing long-term value creation for our shareholders is management's core mission.

Importantly, we chose the word suspension deliberately. We expect this pause and return of capital to be temporary. The steps we are taking today are making Atlas stronger, not just to survive through the cycles, but to power through them.

I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Blake McCarthy.

Blake McCarthy
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, John. In Q3 2025, Atlas generated revenues of $259.6 million and adjusted EBITDA of $40.2 million, a 15% margin.

EBITDA fell more than forecast due to the aforementioned fall in customer demand, elevated operating expenses at our Kermit facility, and margin pressure in our logistics business.

OpEx per ton, including royalties, was $13.52 and higher than anticipated. Cash SG&A was elevated during the quarter due to litigation expenses.

Excluding litigation expense, cash SG&A was in line. We expect fourth quarter volumes to decline sequentially to approximately 4.8 million tons.

While we do expect some degree of seasonality during the quarter, it will be partially offset by new customer additions and a resumption of completion activity from current customers.

Our average proppant sales price is expected to be slightly under $20 per ton for the fourth quarter. OpEx per ton is expected to be up slightly from third-quarter levels due to lower sequential volumes and the elevated expenses related to resolving the wet shed issues at Kermit.

OpEx per ton is expected to normalize in the first quarter of 2026 due to an increase in scheduled customer volumes and a return to more normal operations at Kermit, with further improvement expected in the second quarter with the commissioning of the new dredges.

Logistics margins are expected to decline sequentially with seasonality and planned customer crew rings. We expect our power business to be up slightly, driven by increased unit deployments.

Breaking down revenue for the third quarter, profit sales totaled $106.8 million, logistics contributed $135.7 million, and power rentals added $17.1 million.

Proppant volumes were 5.25 million tons, slightly lower than the second quarter. Average revenue per ton was $20.34. We did not record any shortfall in revenue this quarter.

Total cost of sales, excluding DD&A, was $195.2 million, comprised of $66.3 million in plant operating costs, $117.8 million in service costs, $6.4 million in rental costs, and $4.7 million in royalties.

Cash SG&A for the quarter was $25.5 million, which included cash transaction expenses and other nonrecurring items of $1.3 million. SG&A is expected to remain around third-quarter levels due to the aforementioned litigation expenses.

DD&A was $40.6 million. Net loss was $23.7 million, and net loss per share was $0.19. Adjusted free cash flow, defined as adjusted EBITDA less maintenance CapEx, was $22 million or 8% of revenue.

Total accrued CapEx during the third quarter was $30.5 million, consisting of $12.3 million in growth CapEx and $18.2 million in maintenance CapEx, bringing total accrued CapEx for the first 9 months to approximately $100.1 million.

We continue to budget $115 million of total CapEx for 2025. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA is expected to be down sequentially, driven primarily by lower sales volumes and logistics margins related to end-of-year seasonality.

Before I hand the call over to Ben, I'd like to give a little detail on our efficiency initiative and the goals we have set internally and expect to hold ourselves to for investors.

As John mentioned, Atlas's core strategy is based around being the most efficient supplier of sand and logistics in the Permian Basin, and having our overall cost structure optimized is key to the execution of that strategy.

Thus, we have set a near-term cost savings target of $20 million annualized for the organization. These savings are expected to be realized through rightsizing of our corporate G&A, the fixed cost structure of our operations, and a heightened focus on procurement savings.

We expect to begin realizing some of these savings as early as this quarter, with the full impact flowing through our financials by mid-2026. This is simply good corporate hygiene and necessary following 3 successful acquisitions since the beginning of 2024.

Atlas is designed to generate cash through the cycle, and exercises like this ensure that we will maximize cash flow generation through the cycle.I'll now turn the call over to our Executive Chairman,Ben Brigham, for some closing remarks.

Ben Brigham
Founder & Executive Chairman

Thank you, Blake. While our operations are logistically located in the field, our corporate headquarters are right here in Austin, Texas, home to Circuit of the Americas, where the U.S. Formula 1 Grand Prix debuted in 2012.

Just over a decade ago, in 2014, F1 went hybrid, introducing a revolutionary dual power architecture that paired the traditional engine with advanced energy recovery systems.

The impact was profound. Last time fell by 3 to 5 seconds, a monumental gain in a sport decided by 10 of a second. With dual power sources, F1 became faster, more efficient, and more sustainable than ever, fueling record profitability, global viewership, and enduring relevance. That's the perfect metaphor for Atlas today. We've gone hybrid.

With the acquisition of Moser Energy Systems, we've layered a stable, high-growth power generation platform on top of our industry-leading oilfield foundation.

This isn't mere diversification. It's strategic synergy engineered to: one, smooth volatility in oil and gas cycles; two, accelerate growth in high-demand, high-margin power markets; and three, deliver predictable, resilient cash flows for shareholders.

The tailwinds are unlike anything I've seen in my career. We now see the convergence of explosive growth in AI infrastructure, advanced manufacturing, grid reliability, and next-generation energy systems.

Markets where distributed, efficient, always-on power is mission-critical.

Regarding our core proppant and logistics business, we estimate our Permian market share has grown during this down cycle to about 35%, and early RFP season signals suggest it will grow further next year. That's a direct result of our unmatched advantages and performance.

As Blake and John noted, a key driver will be a meaningful ramp in Dune Express utilization beginning in 2026.

Finally, on the dividend. I don't take this decision lightly. Dividends are a vital signal of value creation and transparency. However, to optimize capital allocation and maximize long-term shareholder value, especially given the transformative opportunities in power, a temporary suspension is the right move.

And as one of the largest shareholders and your Executive Chairman, returning capital to owners remains a top priority. This is a strategic pause, not a retreat.

That concludes our prepared remarks for the third quarter. I'll now turn the call over to the operator for Q&A.