Affirm Holdings, Inc. (AFRM) Q1 2026 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Zane Keller - Head of Investor Relations
Max Levchin - Founder, CEO & Chairman
Michael Linford - Chief Operating Officer
Robert O'Hare - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Dan Dolev - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Christopher Svensson - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Kathy Chen
Daniel Perlin - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Harry Bartlett - Rothschild & Co Redburn, Research Division
Moshe Orenbuch - TD Cowen, Research Division
Robert Wildhack - Autonomous Research US LP
Adam Frisch - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
James Faucette - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
John Hecht - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Jeffrey Cantwell - Seaport Research Partners
Zachary Gunn - Financial Technology Partners LP
Joel Riechers - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Reginald Smith - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
James Friedman - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Kyle Joseph - Stephens Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon. Welcome to the Affirm Holdings First Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded, and a replay of the call will be available on our Investor Relations website for a reasonable period of time after the call.

I'd like to turn the call over to Zane Keller, Head of Investor Relations. Thank you, and you may begin.

Zane Keller
Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone listening that today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those set forth in our filings with the SEC, which are available on our Investor Relations website.

Actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today. These forward-looking statements speak only as of today, and the company does not assume any obligation or intent to update them, except as required by law. In addition, today's call may include non-GAAP financial measures. These measures should be considered as a supplement to and not a substitute for GAAP financial measures.

For historical non-GAAP financial measures, reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings supplement slide deck, which is available on our Investor Relations website. Hosting today's call with me are Max Levchin, Affirm's Founder and Chief Executive Officer; Michael Linford, Affirm's Chief Operating Officer; and Robert O'Hare, Affirm's Chief Financial Officer. In line with our practice in prior quarters, we will begin with brief opening remarks from Max before proceeding immediately into your questions and answers.

On that note, I'll turn the call over to Max to begin.

Max Levchin
Founder, CEO & Chairman

Thank you, Zane. As always, the better the quarter, the fewer the opening remarks, and this one was really great. So this is really all I got. Actually, no, I have one piece of breaking news, actual breaking news to report. Earlier this week, we extended our U.S. agreement with Amazon for an additional 5 years through January 2031. We look forward to serving these customers going forward. All right. Back to you, Zane.

Zane Keller
Head of Investor Relations

Okay. Thank you, Max. With that, we will now take your questions. Operator, can you please open the line for our first question?