AirSculpt Technologies, Inc. (AIRS) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 7, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Yogesh Jashnani - CEO & Director
Dennis Dean - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Allison Malkin - ICR Inc.
Marco Criscuolo - Nephron Research LLC
Sam Eiber - BTIG, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the AirSculpt Technologies, Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.

I will now hand the call over to Allison Malkin of ICR. Please go ahead.

Allison Malkin
ICR Inc.

Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to discuss AirSculpt Technologies results for the third quarter of fiscal 2025. Joining me on the call today are Yogi Jashnani, Chief Executive Officer; and Dennis Dean, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may include forward-looking statements. These statements may include our future expectations regarding financial results and guidance, market opportunities and our growth. Risks and uncertainties that may impact these statements and could cause actual future results to differ materially from currently projected results are described in this morning's press release and the reports we will file with the SEC, all of which can be found on our website at investors.airsculpt.com. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements or information except as required by law.

During our call today, we will also reference certain non-GAAP financial measures. We use non-GAAP measures in some of our financial discussions as we believe they more accurately represent the true operational performance and underlying results of our business. A reconciliation of these measures can be found in our earnings release as filed this morning and in our most recent 10-Q, which will also be available on our website. For today's call, Yogi will begin with an overview of our third quarter and share an update on our strategic priorities. Then Dennis will review our financial results in more detail and provide our outlook.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Yogi.

Yogesh Jashnani
CEO & Director

Thank you, Allison and good morning, everyone. During the quarter, we made strong progress on our key initiatives that focused on new growth opportunities, margin improvement and debt reduction. While third quarter revenue was lower than anticipated, this is reflective of timing instead of trajectory of our business. Most significantly, we are setting the stage to realize a broader market opportunity to provide body contouring solutions that address the unwanted side effects related to GLP-1 use. This represents a long-term growth engine for AirSculpt. Our capabilities, scale and brand uniquely position us to capture this major opportunity in aesthetic surgery, which we are calling the GLP-1 transformation.

To that end, we have expanded and refined our strategy to focus on 3 key areas: introducing new services to capture the GLP-1 opportunity, enhancing our sales and marketing strategy and financial discipline in the areas of margin improvement and capital allocation. First, we are introducing new services to capture our GLP-1 market opportunity, which is broader and more durable than I initially expected. We see our skin tightening pilot programs as part of a long-term opportunity that is highly complementary with our core body contouring business. GLP-1 medications have fundamentally reshaped how consumers approach weight loss and wellness and we are seeing this change is beginning to create demand for aesthetic procedures that align to our existing brand and capabilities. In the long term, we believe these procedures can account for a significant portion of AirSculpt's revenue and drive meaningful growth.

For context, global GLP-1 prescriptions have grown at roughly 38% annually between 2022 and 2024, with total sales expected to reach $100 billion by 2030, according to a study from McKinsey & Company. GLP-1 therapies are reshaping the aesthetics landscape with 63% of GLP-1 patients seeking aesthetic treatments post use, representing new consumers to the market. Equally encouraging is that nearly 2/3 of patients that have lost 11% to 30% of their body weight have multiple concerns with GLP-1 medication side effects, driving growth in patient needs for skin tightening and overall reshaping after significant weight loss. At AirSculpt, we have begun to serve this patient base as our protocols, scale and brand trust give us a meaningful head start to further capitalize on this opportunity. While it's still early, in our pilots, we are seeing higher conversion rates amongst GLP-1 patients. The first step towards realizing this potential was our successful pilot of skin tightening that began in Q2 and has recently been expanded to multiple centers.

While we saw a lift in tightening services in the third quarter, we found that many clients coming in for this procedure have lose skin beyond what skin tightening can address. As a result, we have begun to add new procedures to address loose skin when skin tightening alone is not sufficient, thus expanding our total addressable market. This represents a natural extension for us as the scale player in this space. Looking ahead, we will continue to invest to capture this meaningful opportunity. Our second area of focus is enhancing our sales and marketing strategy. In Q3, we adapted our marketing spend to align with the moderation in our revenue trend and prioritized initiatives that drive higher conversion. As we move forward, our marketing approach will balance near-term lead generation with longer-term brand building with a more diversified media mix, including targeted influencer campaigns and television advertising. This is designed to strengthen lead quality, improve conversion and deepen our focus on the affluent consumer base.

With our sales team, we are implementing new training modules and tools as we remain focused on improving conversion. Finally, we have also improved financing options for our patients. Our third area of focus is maintaining strong financial discipline, both in our margins and capital allocation. Year-to-date, we have generated more than $3 million in annualized cost savings, net of investments in new growth initiatives. We expect to continue unlocking incremental value from our current operations, which we anticipate will expand our operating margin going forward. Turning to capital allocation. We have repaid nearly $18 million of our debt year-to-date. Debt repayment continues to be the primary focus of our capital allocation strategy in the near term. Beyond that, we will continue to invest in growth initiatives, including new procedures.

In Q3, we made the decision to close our center in London. As part of a strategic review of all our centers, we saw this was the only unprofitable center and would have required significant investment to turn around. Instead, we have chosen to focus our resources on delivering growth to our North America locations where we continue to see considerable opportunity. We are updating our annual outlook and expect 2025 revenue of approximately $153 million as compared to our previous guidance in the range of $160 million to $170 million. We expect 2025 EBITDA of approximately $16 million, the bottom end of our guidance of $16 million to $18 million. For the fourth quarter, we are seeing improving same-store sales performance compared to a year-to-date trend. Additionally, our implied fourth quarter EBITDA guidance highlights stronger margins, both sequentially and year-over-year.

Turning to personnel news. This morning, we announced Michael Arthur will be joining AirSculpt as Chief Financial Officer starting January 2026. He assumes the CFO position from Dennis Dean, who will retire, as we had previously announced following a transition period. Michael is a seasoned executive who brings public market experience and has led financial organizations through growth, complexity and change. I am confident he will add meaningful strength to our leadership team. Over the next few weeks, Dennis will work closely with Michael to ensure a seamless transition and I'm looking forward to working with him as we position AirSculpt to realize its true growth potential. Secondly, on Wednesday, we filed an 8-K announcing that Dr. Aaron Rollins has resigned from the Board citing personal reasons. He confirmed this was not due to any disagreements between him and the company, its management or the Board on any matter related to the company's operations, policies or practices. We thank Aaron for all his contributions to AirSculpt and wish him all the best.

In summary, we have expanded and refined our strategy to focus on 3 key areas: introducing new services to capture the GLP-1 opportunity, enhancing our sales and marketing strategy and financial discipline in the area of margin improvement and capital allocation. While near-term revenue reflects a period of transition, our growing suite of procedures, balanced marketing strategy and disciplined execution give us the confidence in our long-term trajectory.

And with that, I will now pass it over to Dennis.

Dennis Dean
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Yogi and good morning, everyone. As I mentioned in my remarks last quarter, I'd like to thank the team at AirSculpt for the opportunity to lead this organization as Chief Financial Officer for the past 4 years. It has been an exciting journey and I'm certain that Michael is the right choice for CFO. I'm committed to ensuring a smooth transition of my responsibilities and look forward to watching AirSculpt reach greater heights after I exit the business.

Now turning to our financial performance. As mentioned, revenue for the quarter was $35 million, a 17.8% decline versus the prior year quarter, with same-store revenue down approximately 22%. Cases declined 15.2% to 2,780 with same-store cases down approximately 20% and average revenue per case for the quarter was $12,587, a decline of approximately 3% from the prior year quarter but above the midpoint of our historical range of $12,000 to $13,000. The percentage of patients using financing to pay for procedures was 52%, which is comparable to what we experienced in the second quarter. As a reminder, we receive full payment of all procedures upfront and we have no recourse related to patients who finance their procedures with third-party vendors. Cost of services decreased by $2.9 million compared to the prior year period and as a percentage of revenue increased to 42.5% versus 41.8%.

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $6 million in the quarter compared to the same period in fiscal 2024, which reflects the impact of our cost management activities and reductions in our equity-based compensation. Our customer acquisition cost for the quarter was approximately $3,100 per case as compared to $2,900 in the prior year quarter. Adjusted EBITDA was $3 million compared to $4.7 million for the fiscal 2024 second quarter. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 8.7% compared to 11% in the prior year quarter. The declines in adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin is the result of our revenue declines. Net loss for the quarter was $9.5 million and adjusted net loss for the quarter up $2.4 million or $0.04 per diluted share. Our net loss included 2 noncash charges recorded during the quarter.

The first relates to our Salesforce technology project. When we initially started the Salesforce project in Q4 of 2022, we planned for it to cover everything from marketing and sales to operations and clinical processes but we realized that the strength of the platform lies in marketing and sales. So that is where we are focusing our energy. As a result, we recorded a noncash impairment charge of $4.6 million during the quarter related to those components we do not expect to be used. For operations and clinical needs, we are pursuing alternative solutions that are better tailored to those workflows and for our business.

We continue to be pleased with the portion of this project that we have implemented related to marketing activities and expect to complete the rest of the Salesforce implementation related to the sales function in the first quarter of 2026. We also recorded a loss of approximately $2.3 million related to the closure of our facility in London. This charge primarily relates to an impairment to the long-term assets we have recorded at the center. Additionally, we recorded approximately $1 million to selling, general and administrative expense during the quarter related to accelerating the amortization of the right-of-use asset at this facility. This increase in lease expense had no impact to cash.

During the quarter, we generated $400,000 of revenue at the London center and our adjusted EBITDA was a negative $150,000. For the 9 months ended September 30, 2025, we recorded revenue at our London center of $1.4 million and our adjusted EBITDA was a negative $600,000. Turning to our balance sheet. As of September 30, 2025, cash was $5.4 million and gross debt outstanding was $57.9 million and our $5 million revolver remains undrawn. Our leverage ratio as calculated according to our credit agreement was 3.04x on September 30, 2025 and we are in compliance with all covenants under the terms of our credit agreement. As a reminder, during the second quarter, we repaid $16 million of debt, including $5 million on our revolver and a $10 million prepayment as a result of using proceeds from our capital raise and cash from operations. These activities reflect our ongoing commitment to strengthening the balance sheet, which allows us to move forward with an improved capital structure and enhanced flexibility.

Cash flow from operations for the quarter was a use of cash of $225,000 compared to an increase of cash of $1.8 million in the third quarter of 2024. Turning to our outlook. For 2025, we are updating our revenue outlook to approximately $153 million versus our previous revenue guidance in the range of $160 million to $170 million. We are reiterating the low end of our adjusted EBITDA guidance of approximately $16 million within our range of $16 million to $18 million. For the fourth quarter, our revenue guidance implies a smaller year-over-year decline and we are seeing improving same-store sales performance compared to our year-to-date trend. At the same time, our implied Q4 EBITDA guidance highlights stronger margins, both sequentially and year-over-year.

I will now turn the call over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.