AMC Entertainment Holdings, Inc. (AMC) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 5, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

John Merriwether - Vice President of Capital Markets and Investor Relations
Adam Aron - Chairman, President & CEO
Sean Goodman - Executive VP of International Operations, IT & Procurement, CFO and Treasurer

Conference Call Participants

Eric Wold - Texas Capital Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome, everyone, joining today's call, AMC Holdings Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Webcast. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions].

It is now my pleasure to turn the meeting over to John Merriwether. Please go ahead.

John Merriwether
Vice President of Capital Markets and Investor Relations

Thank you, Sabrina. Good afternoon. I'd like to welcome everyone to AMC's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Webcast. With me this afternoon is Adam Aron, our Chairman and CEO; and Sean Goodman, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before I turn the webcast over to Adam, I'd like to remind everyone that some of the comments made by management during this webcast may contain forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations. Numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those that might be expressed today. Many of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in our most recent public filings, including our most recently filed 10-K and 10-Q. Several of the factors that will determine the company's future results are beyond the ability of the company to control or predict. In light of the uncertainties inherent in any forward-looking statements, listeners are cautioned against relying on these statements. The company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.

On this webcast, we may reference non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow. For a full reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures to GAAP results, please see our earnings release posted in the Investor Relations section of our website earlier this afternoon. After our prepared remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. This afternoon's webcast is being recorded, and a replay will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website at amctheatres.com later today.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Adam.

Adam Aron
Chairman, President & CEO

Thank you, John, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. At AMC, we're especially pleased that with revenue of precisely $1.3 billion and adjusted EBITDA of $122 million, yet again for another quarter, AMC Entertainment comfortably beat Wall Street consensus assessments for both our revenue and adjusted EBITDA. As has often been the case in the recent past, AMC's leading market position and the skills demonstrated in the implementation of our numerous and important marketing, operations and cost containment strategies allowed us for yet another time to overperform the expectations of those who underestimate us.

As we look at AMC's third quarter results and for that matter, the full year-to-date, calendar year 2025 is turning out exactly, and I mean exactly as we have long predicted. Due primarily to the timing of major studio film release dates, a weak first quarter was followed by a blazing hot second quarter, which then was followed by a softening third quarter. We continue to expect, however, that the year will culminate in what we hope will be quite a strong year-end in quarter 4. Hello Oz with WICKED: FOR GOOD, hello Disney's AVATAR: FIRE AND ASH, Indeed, a broad array of appealing movie titles will be coming out before year-end.

Our prediction of a so-so third quarter industry box office turned out to be true as the North American box office declined some 11% following tough comparisons against last year's strong third quarter. But when evaluating AMC's performance in the context of the third quarter's challenging industry-wide environment, I see our company firing on all cylinders, marketing prowess, operational strength, financial discipline, all are direct evidence that AMC is very well positioned to capitalize on the box office growth that we believe lies just ahead. Remember that about 2/3 of our incremental revenue drops to the adjusted EBITDA line. So when industry revenues rise, which we believe they will in Q4 of 2025 and again throughout 2026, AMC's financial results should rise even more rapidly.

The third quarter industry-wide softness should not be a cause for alarm nor a harbinger of some negative trend about which to hand ring or worry. To the contrary, we expect that this will turn out to be the highest-grossing fourth quarter in 6 years. We also continue to believe that the size of the 2026 box office will be dramatically larger than that achieved in 2025. There are clearly bright spots in AMC's third quarter financial results that bode well for AMC, with an expecting rising industry-wide box office in the fourth quarter of this year and again throughout 2026. Specifically, AMC outperformed the industry, achieving all-time record admissions revenue per patron of $12.25.

In addition, food and beverage continues to be a shining success for us as we achieved the second highest food and beverage revenue per patron in our company's entire 105-year history of $7.74. Combining revenue increases with aggressive cost management, it is noteworthy that in the third quarter, we grew our consolidated contribution margin per patron by 9.2% compared to the prior year, and this metric is now approximately 54%, 54% higher than it was pre-pandemic in 2019. The improvements in our efficiency as a company are one of the reasons we are standing proud and tall today.

Despite an industry-wide box office that was well below the third quarter of last year, AMC also generated improvements to cash used in operations and in free cash flow when compared to the same time of a year ago. And also looking at the third quarter, it is especially satisfying to us that in the United States, during the third quarter, AMC significantly increased its market share. so much so that in looking at studio-reported grosses for the full year-to-date, January to September, AMC's market share increase handily outshined that of any other movie theater circuit in the country.

AMC's share now approximates 24% of the domestic box office versus 15% for Regal and 15% for Cinemark. Taking out Canada, where we have no theaters, AMC has a 27% share of the U.S. box office, Regal and Cinemark 16% each. Marcus has just under a 3% share. No other U.S. circuit has even a 2% share. AMC is now about 50% larger than our 2 next nearest competitors. And we are 10-ish times the size or more of everyone else. Our market share increases this year are encouraging to us and a sign that our strategies are working. But it is simply the outsized magnitude of our market share that is so particularly compelling because, as the box office grows over the next 14 months, as we believe it will, AMC is better poised than anyone else to reap the benefit there from.

We believe all this sets us up so very well as we look ahead, given what AMC believes will be a rebounding industry-wide box office going forward, coupled, of course, with all the actions and improvements being made specifically within and across AMC theaters in the United States and Odeon Cinemas in Europe. As previously announced, perhaps more important than any other accomplishment during the third quarter, AMC successfully completed several transformative capital markets transactions that greatly strengthen AMC's financial foundation. We refinanced $173 million of debt maturing in 2026 and equitized $143 million of exchangeable debt, the latter of which, in turn, was subsequently increased to $183 million of equitized exchangeable debt without the issuance of any additional equity or additional use of cash.

Going forward, we will continue to take the necessary actions to enhance our balance sheet and position AMC to capitalize on what we believe will be a multiyear industry recovery. In conclusion, let me add that we are tremendously excited about the film slate coming in the remainder of this fourth quarter, both with blockbuster titles and also with more intimate storytelling. It all starts this weekend with Disney’s action-packed PREDATOR: BADLANDS coupled with Sony Pictures Classics NUREMBERG. In November, we also will have Lionsgate ‘s NOW YOU SEE ME NOW YOU DON’T, Disney’s family favorite ZOOTOPIA 2, , Paramount’s THE RUNNING MAN and Universal’s acclaimed and much awaited return to Oz with WICKED: FOR GOOD. Universal’s chilling FIVE NIGHTS AT FREDDY’S, Paramount’s animated adventure THE SPONGEBOB MOVIE: SEARCH FOR SQUAREPANTS, Focus Features’ SONG SUNG BLUE and the third chapter of Disney’s epic saga from the mind of the legendary James Cameron, AVATAR: FIRE AND ASH. What a lineup of movies.

With that and all the other highly anticipated films that will be coming out in November, December, in addition, we believe the fourth quarter box office will surpass that of last year and knocks 2025 as the largest post-pandemic box office year yet. Of course, that all depends on ticket sales in November and December. We'll all know for sure in about a couple of months. To put an exclamation point on that expected box office growth in the near term, if one sets aside the anemic first quarter of 2025, the domestic industry-wide box office has actually been on a $10 billion pace since April 1. That is a number that is still very much larger than the calendar year box office recorded for either 2023, 2024, or the current year 2025.

What's more knowing of the long list of great titles coming from our studio partners in 2026, we envision a strong and robust film slate is on the horizon for the full year ahead. Sean, let's go into the quarter in more detail.

Sean Goodman
Executive VP of International Operations, IT & Procurement, CFO and Treasurer

Thanks, Adam, and thanks, everyone, for joining us today. As predicted, the third quarter was relatively soft compared to last year. Nonetheless, while the North American box office was down 11%, AMC's consolidated admissions revenue was down by only 3.9% and domestic admissions revenue was down by only 5%. This reflects the meaningful growth in our market share, thanks to the power of our premium large-format offerings, unrivaled loyalty programs, innovative marketing, promotions, and pricing. This afternoon, I'd like to focus my comments on several key third-quarter performance metrics that clearly demonstrate the underlying strength of our business. Our consolidated revenue increased by 7.5% versus last year and is now 47% above pre-pandemic Q3 2019. This remarkable growth is driven by a 60.5%, that's 60.5 6.5% increase in food and beverage revenue per patron and 33.8% increase in admissions revenue per patron, all relative to Q3 2019.

These are impressive metrics yet, but even more important is the incremental profit that we generate with each additional moviegoer. Our measure of this is contribution margin per patron, and we define it as total revenue minus both film exhibition and food and beverage costs divided by total attendance.

In the third quarter, we grew our consolidated contribution margin per patron by 9.2% compared to the prior year, and this metric is now approximately 54% higher than in 2019. From a segment perspective, our U.S. operations delivered a truly exceptional quarter. Consider the following: in Q3 2025, our domestic adjusted EBITDA reached $111 million. This is nearly $4 million more than in Q3 2019, despite us selling $18.9 million or 31% fewer tickets than we did in Q3 2019. This achievement was possible because domestic revenue per patron was 50% higher and domestic contribution margin per patron was 57.5% higher than in 2019.

Turning to our Odeon operations. The European industry was challenging in the third quarter, with attendance at our Odeon cinemas down 11.4% versus the prior year. Nonetheless, the business continued to deliver strong fundamental results with total revenue per patron up 13% and contribution margin per patron up 14.4% compared to last year. Total international revenue per patron is now up 37% versus 2019, and international contribution margin per patron is up 42.2% compared to 2019. These results are evidence that the box office does not need to fully recover to achieve pre-pandemic levels of adjusted EBITDA. This is thanks to a combination of initiatives focused on theater portfolio optimization, operational efficiencies, food and beverage innovations, industry-leading marketing programs, and the ongoing success of our AMC Go Plan.

Over the last few years, we have taken meaningful steps to optimize our theater portfolio. This includes rent negotiations, the closure of underperforming locations, and selective capital deployment in new and existing high-performing locations. In 2025 alone, we closed 20 locations and we opened 3. And since January 2020, we've now closed 212 locations and opened 65 for a net reduction of 147 theaters or about 15% of our fleet. Going forward, we'll continue to strategically manage our theater portfolio to optimize profitability.

Moving to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $365.8 million. This excludes restricted cash of $51.1 million. Our free cash flow in the fourth quarter will inevitably be dependent on the box office during the next 2 months. Provided this turns out in line with our expectations, we anticipate being free cash flow positive for the 9-month period ending December 31, 2025.

From a capital expenditure perspective, we expect full-year 2025 CapEx net of lease incentives to be in the range of $175 million to $225 million. Our capital allocation priorities remain: one, maintaining adequate liquidity and financial flexibility; two, strengthening the balance sheet; three, elevating the guest experience; four, pursuing high-return growth initiatives. This disciplined approach to capital allocation reflects our commitment to building an increasingly strong and resilient company to deliver long-term shareholder value. Since the beginning of 2022, we've now lowered the principal value of our debt, finance leases, and COVID-related lease deferrals by nearly $1.5 billion, and we're not yet done. We'll continue to take decisive steps to strengthen our balance sheet so that we are increasingly well-positioned as the box office recovery continues.

In closing, AMC's third-quarter results underscore the meaningful progress that we have made over the last few years. With promising fourth quarter already underway, a robust firm slate ahead, and an improving capital structure, we believe AMC is exceptionally well positioned to capture the full benefit of the industry's continued recovery and to deliver long-term value for our shareholders.

With that, I'll pass the call back over to Adam.

Adam Aron
Chairman, President & CEO

Thank you, Sean. Before we take your questions on this webcast, I'd like to touch briefly on 5 different points. First, AMC Theaters distribution took another bold and new step forward in the third quarter of 2025 when we partnered again with the iconic one and only Taylor Swift to highlight the debut of the 12th studio album in her astonishing career. All the planning occurred within the third quarter for our theatrical release on October 3 to 5 of the 1 weekend screening of Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party of the Showgirl. This unique theatrical event was showcased on approximately 6,500 movie theater screens in the United States and across some 56 countries, generating some $50 million in box office receipts in a weekend, $34 million domestically, and another $16 million internationally. We're proud that Taylor Swift, the official release party with Show Girl, came in at #1 in the domestic box office for its opening weekend. We're also proud that it was graded an A+ on CinemaScore and in the high 90s on Rotten Tomatoes. And as a result, that we put so many smiles on the faces of millions of Taylor Swift fans globally.

These impressive results speak to the strength of AMC's innovative distribution abilities, not only bolstering AMC's results but also contributing to the health of the overall industry. The numbers of the Taylor Swift project speak for themselves. To that end, here's a number for you, 7.5. 7.5 you ask, it is incredible to think, but from start to finish, from the time of our very first phone call about this potential project to generating from some 56 countries, fully $50 million in box office ticket sales receipts, plus, of course, food and beverage revenues in addition, AMC pulled all this off in only 7.5 weeks, 7.5 weeks from first conversation to completed project. And going back to the concept of our success in increasing AMC's outsized market share in the U.S. and Canada, of course, we take some real satisfaction that our normal market share has now grown up to 24%. But on the Taylor Swift official release party of the Sogirill event, AMC's market share was an eversoullant 36%.

As excited as we are by the numbers, it is especially gratifying to us that after our immensely successful 2023 experience with Taylor, she came back to AMC for another round in 2025. What a compliment it is to AMC that the Swift family was so pleased with us that they came back another time. I've said this often before, but I want to say it again. Our every interaction with Taylor, with everyone in the Swift family, and all the people in our camp, all those interactions, every single one has been nothing less than a true joy and an honor and a privilege for AMC. I say this with all the sincerity I can muster.

Thank you, Taylor. We are so proud to be a small part of your team. This all leads us to believe, by the way, that while our bread and butter will always remain the vast output of the current studio system in the future, there also is clear opportunity on an incremental basis for AMC to create and distribute more theatrical content. Second point, speaking of adding more content for our screens, I am especially optimistic that we can do more on a cooperative basis with Netflix. During the third quarter, we opened a new dialogue between AMC and Netflix that led to our showing KPop Demon Hunters over Halloween weekend. Not surprisingly, given our array of theaters and our loyal customer base, AMC generated more than 1/3 of all the U.S. theater guests seeing KPop last weekend.

The talks with Netflix are in their infancy, and we do not know yet the ultimate size there can be for this potential cooperation. There is much still to work out, especially, for example, on Windows. But even so, realizing that Netflix is a great company and the largest streaming service on the planet with an enormous amount of content, and that AMC is the largest movie theater chain in the world, sitting here today, I am highly confident that there is more to come with our 2 companies working cooperatively together. Stay tuned.

Third, again, on generating more content, given the success we've demonstrated with Keller Swift and Beyonce, and when you factor in that we have now built the technical capability, and this is unknown to many of you, to be able to live broadcast events to 277 of our 530 theaters in the United States and to a similarly large percentage of our theaters in Europe. I believe there is dramatic opportunity for AMC to broadcast live concerts and live sporting events on our giant screens. We intend to make this pursuit one of our highest priorities for 2026.

Fourth, when talking of giant screens, no one in our industry is anywhere close to AMC in the area of offering premium large-format screens, extra-large format screens, and other premium experiences. With 223 IMAX screens globally and right at around half of the IMAX screens in the United States, we are a significant recipient to share in IMAX's obvious success. Heretofore, our recent monies have been concentrated on improving the quality of our IMAX screens, enhancing them greatly through a multiyear effort to convert almost all of them to the much preferred IMAX with laser at AMC concept and format. That format includes laser projection, much enhanced sound, more attractable visual inauditorium aesthetics, and more comfortable seating.

Depending upon your view of the terminology, that effort to upgrade our IMAX theaters to IMAX with laser is now either in the back stretch or the home stretch such that we are now turning our attention to another notion that we have, in fact, entered into discussions with IMAX about once again increasing the number of our IMAX locations as well. Similarly, we are so incredibly pleased with our investment in Dolby Cinema PLFs, which are doing so, so very well for AMC. We currently have 177 installed globally. And as we announced earlier this year, we are so confident in our success with Dolby Cinema that we would like to grow that count of Dolby auditoriums by around 25% over the next few years. And while today, we only have 6 ScreenX auditoriums and no 4DX auditoriums, again, early this year, we signed an agreement with CJ to exponentially increase our count of their 2 premium offerings within the AMC and Odeon fleet of theaters.

Not to be outdone only by our so-called third-party PLFs, AMC also has 147 of our own house brand PLFs, primarily branded Prime in the United States and iSense in Europe. I would expect that in the next couple of years, our house brand PLF locations will also grow in numbers, and specifically that with Prime in the United States, we will double, possibly even triple, the number of our Prime auditoriums. And in a fast-moving advance for AMC, we've moved ever so quickly to introduce what we call our extra-large format screens with our new XL offerings, which I might add command a price premium in ticket price.

Launched just 1.5 years ago, we already have 151 XL screens installed and delighting moviegoers, 67 in the United States and 84 in Europe. By next Christmas, that number should about double. I expect that we'll have in the vicinity of around 300 or so XL screens in full operation a year from now. You all likely know that premium large-format and extra-large format screens greatly appeal to moviegoers. But what I find particularly impressive is that we have pulled off this great commitment to increasing and enhancing our premium experiences, all the while living within our very tight $175 million to $225 million annual net capital expenditures targets. And finally, the fifth point, as you might expect, AMC is actually -- is actively canvassing how AI, artificial intelligence, can be used both to make our company more efficient, but also to dazzle our guests.

We're already using AI internally in many ways, and our use cases will increase dramatically in 2026 and beyond. But especially interesting, during the third quarter, we found our first way to participate in AI-powered technology that already is dazzling those people seeking engaging out-of-home entertainment. In August, we made a single-digit multimillion-dollar equity investment in Nova Sky Stories, a company brilliantly conceived and led by its visionary founder, Tesla Board member, Kimbal Musk, and brother of Elon. Nova Sky Stories was created a few years ago when Kimbal acquired the formal aerial drone division of Intel. He has since turned its cutting-edge and leading AI-powered technology into also storytelling aerial drone shows that fascinate both free guests and paid ticket buyers alike, key in on that paid ticket buyers notion as Nova Sky Stories creatively lights up the dark evening skies with its just wonderful light shows.

Nova's most recent effort was in September, a truly mind-bending Grace for the World concert and aerial drone light show that took place over St. Peter's Square in Rome in full cooperation with the Vatican in conjunction with its Jubilee. You can see footage on Disney+, which telecasted live, and stunning excerts can be found throughout YouTube. The next incredible NovaSkytory show will take place at the Rose Bowl in Los Angeles just next weekend on Saturday, November 15. For more information, check out www.novaskystories.com, that's NOVA for novaskystories.com.

In addition to just investing in this company with what we expect will be its explosive growth financially in 2026 and 2027, there is much that AMC Entertainment can and will do together in cooperation with Nova Sky Stories. More details about that to come in the coming year. I'll wrap up our webcast today by saying that AMC is so very excited about the 8-week sprint that we have in front of us to finish out 2025. Over the next 2 months, it will be movie after movie after movie. I can't wait for Norberg this weekend. And I was not alone when I found my sight crying in a movie theater while I was viewing an advanced screening of Focus Features' movie coming out of Christmas, the remarkable Songsun Blue. After all, as our very own Kidman has said for some heartbreak feels really good in a place like this.

And of great importance financially to AMC. Advanced bookings for Wicked: For Good are Through the Roof. They exceed the advanced bookings that we previously had at the same time before release for the original Wicked movie of a year ago, which itself was a global Triumph, both for Universal and for AMC. And then what is there to say that James Cameron, storyteller extraordinary. The entire world is on pins and needles waiting to see your latest short of the masterpiece, Avatar Fire and Ash.

With that, Sean, let's go to questions from our shareholders and from analysts.