Arqit Quantum Inc. (ARQQ) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 9, 2025 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Andrew Leaver - CEO & Director
Nicholas Pointon - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Scott Buck - H.C. Wainwright & Co, LLC, Research Division
Troy Jensen - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

On today's call, we will be referencing to the press release issued this morning that details the company's full fiscal year 2025 results, which can be downloaded from the company's website at arqitgroup.com. [Operator Instructions].

Finally, a recording of the call will be available on the Investors section of the company's website later today. Please note that this webcast includes forward-looking statements. Statements about the company's beliefs and expectations concerning words such as may, will, could, believe, expect, anticipate and similar expressions are forward-looking statements and are based on assumptions and beliefs as of today.

The company encourages you to review the safe harbor statements, risk factors and other disclaimers contained in today's press release as well as the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which identify specific risk factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those described in our forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements after this webcast.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Andy Leaver, the company's Chief Executive Officer. Andy?

Andrew Leaver
CEO & Director

Thank you, and thank you for joining our fiscal year 2025 earnings call. From my vantage point, fiscal 2025 was a year of building momentum. The issue which Arqit's products and services address, specifically the current weaknesses in encryption and the future threat posed by quantum computers moved up the risk register of enterprises and governments around the world. It was a year of building momentum for the company as well, momentum in prospective customer engagements across our key markets, momentum in revenue and momentum in contracted backlog coming into fiscal year 2026.

Fiscal year 2025 was also a year of broadening our product and service footprint. Our acquisition of Ampliphae’'s Encryption Intelligence product and risk advisory services broadens our engagement with current and prospective customers to address the migration journey to a post-quantum cryptographic posture from beginning to end.

Innovative collaborations with Intel and Sparkle broaden our product solution sets to include confidential computing, which is an exciting emerging market opportunity and quantum secure communications across the optical transport layer.

Finally, the year was marked by further building upon past successes, specifically replicating past successes in the telecom network sector and defense sectors with additional contract wins. The need for enhanced cryptography is ever increasing, particularly with each new announcement of advances in quantum computing capability. Organizations are increasingly aware of the need to address the issue.

We have seen a change in the market from awareness of the issue to action to address. The level of action is uneven across and within market segments. However, it is no longer a question of if organizations need to upgrade their cryptographic posture, but when they will upgrade their posture.

Arqit recently was invited to present to a leading U.S. securities industry regulatory organization about the rise of quantum computing and the threat it poses to cybersecurity for the financial industry. One of the most interesting questions posed was, what can we, as a regulatory body, do to support and encourage a transition to post-quantum security? From Arqit's perspective, the invitation to present and the question asked demonstrated the increased urgency, which is being felt across key market sectors to move to a post-quantum encryption posture.

Many government, security agencies and regulatory bodies across the globe are mandating or encouraging the migration to post-quantum cryptography. Some are even imposing deadlines. Top-down pressure plus increased awareness of the issue at the CTO or CISO level within organizations is driving increased action to address the issue.

As a result of this market trend, Arqit's marketing programs and announced successes, we have seen increased activity with prospective customers. The first step with prospective customers is a demonstration and test engagement. In the first 2 months of this fiscal year, we have already signed 12 demonstration and test engagements. The pace of engagements is running well ahead of fiscal 2025. We believe this is the best barometer of building market migration towards a post-quantum cybersecurity preparedness, and it signals increasing awareness of Arqit's symmetric key agreement encryption platform as a compelling solution.

We have a proven solution to address the weaknesses of today's encryption and the threat posed by quantum computers. However, we recognize that as an organization that once they migrate to a post-quantum encryption posture, needs to understand its current cryptographic landscape, its risk exposure before it can take steps to upgrade its encryption architecture.

We lacked an important capability, namely risk advisory tool to help organizations take the first important step to understand its risk. In May, we acquired Ampliphae’'s product portfolio IP and innovations team, specializing in encryption risk advisory and AI analytics. Ampliphae’'s Encryption Intelligence risk analysis tools, which we acquired, give organizations complete visibility into all encryption technologies in use across the network, automatically identifying weak points and vulnerabilities, including those susceptible quantum attacks.

The encryption intelligence risk analysis tools offer CISOs and CTOs an on-ramp for their post-quantum migration. They cannot address issues which they cannot see. Encryption intelligence shines a light on the problem. While a revenue opportunity in and of itself, encryption intelligence is also a sales lead generator for our symmetric key encryption solutions.

Our encryption Intelligence product, combined with Arqit's Quantum Encryption Technology delivers a comprehensive proposition to identify and mitigate cyber risk exposure from both current and future quantum threats.

Arqit can help organizations detect, protect and comply. What I mean by that is, firstly, we can help organizations detect their cryptographic risk exposure through the use of encryption intelligence. Secondly, we can help organizations enhance and protect their networks and IT infrastructure through use of our quantum-safe symmetric key agreement encryption solutions. And thirdly, organizations can migrate to a post-quantum encryption posture that is compliant with cybersecurity guidance from leading governmental agencies and trade groups as our encryption intelligence tools map against leading security agency recommendations and our encryption solutions meet all such recommendations, including the National Security Agency's commercial solutions for classified symmetric key management requirements.

While a concise marketing phrase detect, protect and comply captures the essence of what we do and the value proposition which we offer customers. Adding encryption intelligence to our portfolio is an important broadening of our offering to assist clients in their end-to-end migrations.

Another important point to add broadening of our product portfolio was the announcement of our collaboration with Intel to bring symmetric key cryptography into the trusted domain created by Intel's TDX Enclave. What that means to the less technically inclined is workloads can move between on-premise and cloud environments, which is secure and confidential. Hence, it is called confidential computing.

The security of workloads in process and transit is a vital importance to CTOs and CISOs. Confidential computing is increasingly important as it is an element of the rise in market focus on trust and data sovereignty. Trust and sovereignty are the words we hear regularly in our engagements with existing and prospective customers.

Data sovereignty is the concept that data is subject to the loss of the country or region where it was generated. It's an issue, which is complicated by the continued movement of data and workloads to the cloud, which are often transnational. This is a particularly important issue in the European Union. Recent materials announced by Deutsche Telekom, British Telecom and Orange focus on their sovereign cloud or network architecture initiatives.

Arqit's collaborative solution with Intel and its Intel TDX has significant applicability to the trust and sovereignty issues confronted by organizations seeking to comply with data sovereignty laws. We expect to have additional announcements about offerings and go-to-market strategies targeted to the confidential computing and data sovereignty market in this fiscal year.

Arqit believes this market represents a meaningful opportunity for the company, and we have a strong partner in Intel with whom to attack it. While we have broadened our product offering with encryption intelligence and our activities with Intel, we remain focused on building on our recent successes, specifically in the telecom and government and defense markets.

In the telecom market, we signed a 3-year contract with Sparkle, a Tier 1 network operator, enabling to offer a Quantum Secure Network as a Service. Building upon our relationship, we just recently announced in partnership with Sparkle that it has demonstrated embedding Arqit's encryption technology directly into the optical transport layer, validating that sensitive data could be secured at the physical network layer without compromising performance. This demonstration opens the door for additional Quantum Secure product offerings for network end users.

In addition to activities with Sparkle, Arqit signed additional license agreements on contracts with RSG Telecom and its affiliate Fabric Networks. Our engagement with prospective large telecom network operators is strong. We expect to replicate our success with Sparkle, RSG and Fabric with other network operators as we have the blueprint, which should shorten implementation times for prospective customers.

Likewise, in defense, whether militaries or defense contractors, we have built upon our recent success. Our previously announced initial Department of War contract in partnership with a large IT vendor has been a validated event. Since the announcement, we've signed several additional defense-related contracts, including one for integration into unmanned battlefield assets.

There is significant opportunity in the defense market. We have undertaken multiple demonstration and test engagements usually as part of a solution set with partners with U.S. and foreign military organizations and defense contractors. While sales cycles in defense can be slower than other markets, we believe that this market will represent a large percentage of our revenue over time. In that regard, we've increased and realigned our U.S. operations and personnel to drive our efforts to capture more of this market, whether U.S. military, national security or government.

So circling back to my introduction, we are experiencing the market momentum to take action to address the weaknesses in today's encryption and the threat of quantum computers. Prospective customer engagements are accelerating. We broadened our product offering to provide a comprehensive solution to detect, protect and comply. We also broadened our product offering to be a first mover in quantum secure confidential computing and data sovereignty. And finally, deepen our success in key network operator and defense markets.

Our efforts are beginning to come through in our results, which Nick will talk about in a moment. I will say we believe that fiscal 2025 represents a trough year from a revenue perspective. The company grew revenue materially in the second half of the year as compared to the first half. We ended the fiscal year with executed contracts that represent $1.2 million in revenue that could be recognized in fiscal year 2026. We expect to build upon that foundation through 2026.

As momentum in the marketplace for Quantum-safe solutions grow, so is our conviction. Organizations are starting the migration journey. We can assist in the assessment of risk exposure, and we offer a provably secure symmetric key encryption solution. We like our position in the marketplace to capture the demand we are building. We are excited about our prospects for 2026.

Thank you. And with that, I will turn it over to our CFO, Nick Pointon.

Nicholas Pointon
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Andy. For the fiscal year 2025, Arqit generated $530,000 in revenue as compared to $293,000 in revenue for fiscal year 2024. The variance between periods resulted primarily from the commencement in March of our previously announced multiyear contract with a customer in the Middle East.

In 2025, we generated revenue from 7 licenses for our SKA-Platform and NetworkSecure solutions and professional services. This compares to 13 licenses for fiscal year 2024. While our revenue for the fiscal year is modest, our full year result does not -- does represent a material improvement from the prior year and a material sequential improvement from the first half of fiscal year 2025 to the end of the period.

Recall, our first half of 2025 revenue was $67,000, while the second half of the year saw a revenue accelerate to $463,000. The acceleration in second half revenue benefited from, amongst other factors, commencement of revenue generation from our multiyear contract in the Middle East, which, as previously reported, had been delayed. It also reflects commencement of our multiyear contract with Sparkle.

In keeping with Andy's theme of momentum, we previously reported that we ended fiscal year 2025 with $1.2 million of contractual revenue, which may be recognized in fiscal year 2026. While we are still speaking in modest nominal dollar terms, the trajectory of our prospective customer discussions, licensing activity and now revenue is all moving in a positive direction.

Revenue from the Arqit SKA-Platform as a Service and Arqit NetworkSecure products totaled $476,000. Professional services and maintenance revenue in support of contract activity was $54,000 for the period. For fiscal year 2024, Arqit SKA-Platform as a Service and Arqit NetworkSecure contracts revenue totaled $191,000 and professional services and maintenance in support of contract activity was $102,000.

Our administrative expenses equate to operating costs for those more familiar with U.S. GAAP. Administrative expenses for fiscal year 2025 were $34.7 million versus $25.4 million for fiscal year 2024. The variance between periods was primarily due to a reduction in foreign exchange gain resulting from strengthening of the British pound against the U.S. dollar.

Employee and property costs saw material reductions year-over-year. Arqit's headcount as of 30th September 2025 was 91 employees as compared to 82 as of 30 September 2024. Administrative expense for the period includes a $5.6 million noncash credit associated with share-based compensation versus a restated $0.6 million noncash charge for fiscal year 2024.

Operating loss for the period was $38.5 million versus a loss of $26.9 million for fiscal year 2024. The variance in operating loss between periods is primarily an increase in administrative expenses and recognition of an exceptional item for the outstanding class action lawsuit in the period.

We previously announced that an agreement in principle has been reached regarding a settlement of the lawsuit. For the fiscal year, loss before tax from continuing operations was $36.5 million. For fiscal year 2024, loss before tax from continuing operations was $37.4 million. The variance between periods is primarily due to an improvement in currency translation differences. As of 30th September 2025, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $36.9 million.

With that, I turn the call back to Andy.

Andrew Leaver
CEO & Director

Thank you, Nick. A final thought. Nick perhaps said it best when he noted that the trajectory of key measures, prospective customer engagement, signed contracts, revenue, backlog are all moving in a positive direction.

From my perspective, that is a function of the market beginning to take serious action towards migrating to a post-quantum encryption posture. It is also a function of recognition that Arqit symmetric key agreement encryption platform offers a proven solution today. We're very excited about the market for our products in fiscal 2026. The hard work of the entire Arqit team is beginning to bear fruit. We expect to build upon the momentum that we experienced in 2025.

Thank you again. I'll hand the call back over to the operator for Q&A.