AST SpaceMobile, Inc. (ASTS) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 10, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Scott Wisniewski - President & Chief Strategy Officer
Abel Avellan - Founder, Chairman & CEO
Andrew Johnson - Executive VP, CFO, Chief Legal Officer & Director

Conference Call Participants

Michael Funk - BofA Securities, Research Division
Michael Crawford - B. Riley Securities, Inc., Research Division
Bryan Kraft - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Colin Canfield - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Christopher Schoell - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Louie Dipalma - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Greg Pendy
Christopher Quilty - Quilty Space Inc., Research Division
Scott Searle - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AST SpaceMobile Third Quarter 2025 Business Update Call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your host today, Scott Wisniewski, President of AST SpaceMobile. Please go ahead.

Scott Wisniewski
President & Chief Strategy Officer

Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I'm also joined by Chairman and CEO, Abel Avellan; and CFO and Chief Legal Officer, Andy Johnson.

Let me refer you to Slide 2 of the presentation, which contains our safe harbor disclaimer. During today's call, we may make certain forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and as a result, are subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause actual events to differ materially from the forward-looking statements on this call. For more information about these risks and uncertainties, please refer to the Risk Factors section of AST SpaceMobile's annual report on Form 10-K for the year that ended December 31, 2024, Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on May 12, 2025, Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 11, 2025, and the Form 10-Q filed with the SEC today as well as other documents filed by AST SpaceMobile from time to time.

Also, after our initial remarks, we'll be starting our Q&A section with questions submitted by our shareholders. For those of you who may be new to our company and mission, there are nearly 6 billion mobile phones in use today around the world, but many of us still experience gaps in coverage as we live, work and travel. Additionally, there are billions of people without cellular broadband and who remain unconnected from the global economy.

The markets we are pursuing here are massive, and the problem we are solving is important and touches nearly all of us. In this backdrop, AST SpaceMobile is building the first and only global cellular broadband network in space to operate directly with everyday unmodified mobile devices and supported by our extensive IP and patent portfolio.

It is now my pleasure to pass the conversation over to Chairman and CEO, Abel Avellan, who will go through our activities since our last public update.

Abel Avellan
Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Scott. AST SpaceMobile delivered standout progress in the third quarter, as we continue seizing the advantages of our leadership position in the space-based direct-to-device industry. We're executing against all of our key initiatives in this rapidly developing market and especially on deepening our commercial ecosystem with customers, partners over the past few months. We continue to build commercial momentum, more recently highlighted by our definitive agreement with Verizon on Saudi Telecom Group. Scott will discuss our business progress in more detail, but I want to highlight the traction we are achieving with our commercial initiatives.

We signed a definitive commercial agreement with Verizon in the United States and stc in Saudi Arabia and other key markets across the Middle East and North Africa. These definitive commercial agreements demonstrate the meaningful progress in our commercial ecosystem, which include agreements with over 50 MNO partners with nearly 3 billion subscribers globally. These agreements are the product of our trusted, longstanding relationship with both partners, and their confidence in our ability to deliver space-based cellular broadband connectivity to their subscribers.

Our definitive commercial agreement with Verizon is an extension of our transformational partnership, which has been cultivated over several years, including the $100 million commitment in May of last year. The agreement also provides us with a formal commercial pathway to provide direct-to-device cellular broadband services to their customers starting in 2026. Our opportunity to bridge the digital divide and target 100% coverage of the Continental United States has never been stronger. Together, we partner AT&T in premium 850 megahertz low band spectrum.

Our definitive agreement with stc provides us with a long-term partner in a key region with a large geographical area, significant population growth and a strong need for broadband connectivity. More broadly, our 10-year loan term agreement is a promising look into how AST SpaceMobile display mobile can collaboratively shape the future of direct-to-device mobile connectivity, as we continue to grow our mobile network operator partner ecosystem.

Our direct-to-device satellite technology enables native cellular broadband capabilities directly to modify mobile devices, including voice, text, data, video and full Internet access to native cellular apps. As an example of our native cellular capability, we recently completed a BlueBird satellite-enabled technology milestone with Verizon, completing direct voice and video calls as well as 2-way RCS messaging between standard and modified smartphones. This follow additional milestone with Bell Canada in anticipation for a broader commercial rollout.

Specifically, we showcased Canada's first successful space-based direct-to-sell, voice-over-LTE call, video call and other broadband data and video streaming activations. We believe Canada will represent another attractive market for our direct-to-device seller broadband service. Space-based cellular broadband connectivity is an industry that we invented. And a recent technology milestone with Verizon and Bell follows several breakthroughs using our direct-to-device technology, including the first-ever 4G and 5G voice calls, voice over LTE calls, live video calls, streaming, full Internet access and tactical nonterrestrial network connectivity for military and defense purposes from space to modified smartphones.

Our direct-to-device cellular broadband network will help our partners deliver on one of their highest priorities, which is extending connectivity for their customers as part of our effort to deliver on those priorities. We are advancing partners and ecosystem network integration, and we progress towards service activation in key partner markets. Specifically, we have already begun activation in fixed network locations. We expect to continue a scale deployment efforts early next year as we progress activation of an intermittent nationwide service by early 2026 and prepare for continued service later in 2026.

Taking a step back, AST SpaceMobile have now built the largest and most diverse commercial partner ecosystem in the industry. Our network include agreements and understanding with over 50 MNO partner's with nearly 3 billion subscribers globally. We have access to some of the most important markets covered and exposure to billions of subscribers as well as long-term access to valuable spectrum. A key strategy during 2025 has been to deepen this partner ecosystem through definitive commercial agreements.

Today, we're happy to disclose for our first time that we have secured over $1 billion in total contracted revenue commitment from our commercial partners. This represents an incredible snapshot into how our business is developing and not only to the commitments of our partners have to AST SpaceMobile but also the way they are starting to think about financial impact of this massive opportunity.

Turning to manufacturing and launch. Our manufacturing efforts are on track with our goal and expectations. BlueBird 8 to 19 are in various stages of production, and we are on schedule to complete 40 satellites equivalent of microns by early 2026, bringing us to BlueBird 46. Leveraging our 95% vertically integrated manufacturing, we continue to accelerate and improve our manufacturing process and expect to exit calendar 2025 at a manufacturing cadence of 6 satellites per month. A detailed cadence of our 2025 and 2026 deployment plan is shown in the accompanying quarterly presentation found on our IR website. This effort is supported by our steady expanding manufacturing footprint soon to be over 0.5 million square feet of manufacturing and operations space supported by a global workforce of nearly 1,800 people.

We had shipped BlueBird 6 to its launch site in India with launch expected to occur in the first half of December. We also expect to ship BlueBird 7 to Cape Canaveral later this month with launch anticipated shortly thereafter. Additionally, we continue to expect 5 orbital launches by the end of Q1 2026, with launches every 1 to 2 months on average to reach our goal of 45 to 60 satellites launched by the end of 2026.

Additionally, we anticipate our novel ASIC chip will be integrated into our Block 2 BlueBird satellite during Q1 2026, enabling peak data transmission speed of up to 120 megabytes per second, which is a throughput large enough to achieve in native cellular capabilities are customers used to having, even when they are in areas when connected by terrestrial networks.

On our comprehensive global spectrum strategy, since our last earnings call, we closed our deal to acquire Global S-Band Spectrum priority rights and our deal to acquire long-term access to premium lower mid-band, L-band spectrum in the U.S. that has been approved by the court. AST SpaceMobile own and share spectrum profiles, including access to 1,150 megahertz low-band and mid-band tunable MNO spectrum globally, 45 megahertz of AST SpaceMobile licensed MSS lower, mid-band spectrum, 60 megahertz of AST SpaceMobile license S-Band spectrum priority right and low-band spectrum allocated by our MNO partners. Between our own and mobile network operator partner spectrum, we had right to access over 80 megahertz of pair and high-quality spectrum in United States alone, more than any other direct-to-device provider today and in the future.

We have developed our comprehensive spectrum strategy by balancing costs and a disciplined capital allocation. By making a smart and cost-effective investment in spectrum, we are able to preserve the value of our spectrum assets while protecting the long-term viability of our business. This robust portfolio of spectrum is expected to create a durable competitive advantage for AST SpaceMobile. Spectrum enabled us to provide more lanes for direct-to-device cellular broadband services at a faster speed and a greater capacity.

And lastly, we strengthened our financial footing significantly in the last few months, reaching over $3.2 billion in cash and liquidity as of quarter end, pro forma for our recent financial transaction and available liquidity under the ATM facility. We continue to fortify our capital base in a responsible way while building long-term shareholder value. As a result of our funding effort, we are now funded from cash on hand to enable continued service in worldwide key strategic markets.

In summary, our manufacturing and launch activity are on plan and our commercial activities are accelerating. We anticipate an active manufacturing and launch cadence for the remaining of 2025 through 2026 as we progress towards our stated goal of 45 to 60 satellites for continued service coverage in key markets like the United States, Europe, Japan, Saudi Arabia and other key strategic markets like the U.S. government.

We're advancing our commercial activities on the growth -- on the ground, installing gateways, integrating them into partner networks and completing key technology demonstrations around the world as we scale our constellation. We have built moats around multiple assets of our business, including our extensive IP portfolio with approximately 3,800 patent and patent pending claims, satellite technology, partner ecosystem, comprehensive global spectrum strategy and a strong capital base. I could not be more excited for what's come as we continue to run commercial activity going into 2026.

Let me now turn the call over to Scott to provide more detail on our progress and initiatives.

Scott Wisniewski
President & Chief Strategy Officer

Thank you, Abel. We have been making rapid and continuous progress against our key business initiatives. Specifically, the third quarter was marked by milestone achievements as we develop our commercial ecosystem, delivering on our previously stated goals of definitive commercial agreements, nondilutive service prepayments and long-term revenue commitments.

Most significantly, we are thrilled to announce today for the first time that we have now secured over $1 billion in aggregate contracted revenue commitments from our commercial partners. These revenue commitments have always been integral to our comprehensive capital raising strategy, but also provide a powerful validation of our ecosystem partner strategy, our business model and the massive size of the direct-to-device market we are creating.

For some context, AST SpaceMobile has incredible strategic assets, including our breakthrough technology, vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities, long-term spectrum access and an ecosystem partner strategy that has set the stage for our commercialization strategy, which is really taking shape. Since our last public update, we signed 2 additional definitive commercial agreements with Verizon and Saudi Telecom Group. These agreements represent years of relationship building and organizational alignment and are the business and legal frameworks through which future services and revenue will flow.

These agreements represent a key step in our commercialization journey as we significantly expand our relationship with 2 additional incredible operators, hold from our ecosystem of over 50 leading global mobile network operator partners who collectively cover nearly 3 billion subscribers. This adds to previous definitive commercial agreements signed with AT&T and Vodafone.

Our strategy is to continue to sign similar agreements with more of our top partners on a rolling basis as we prioritize initial global services on the AST SpaceMobile network.

As you know, Verizon is a very important partner as we develop the U.S. market and target full geographic coverage of the continental United States. This agreement, of course, builds on the strategic partnership with Verizon announced last year with a $100 million commitment. Together with AT&T, we plan to deploy services next year with 2 of the major U.S. mobile network operators.

Moving to Saudi Telecom Group or stc. This is an innovative, leading mobile network operator partner in the Gulf region, who we first signed an MOU with in early 2023. This agreement signed just last month provides a framework for direct-to-device services across the Middle East and North Africa. Importantly, this agreement also included a prepayment of $175 million to be made by the end of 2025 and a significant long-term commercial revenue commitment.

Lastly, we announced our intention to further deepen our ties in Europe through the SatCo joint venture with Vodafone, announcing a constellation of mid-band satellites dedicated for the EU. These satellites will provide a scalable European satellite mobile broadband service for use by mobile network operators and for the benefit of all European citizens, businesses and public sector organizations. This step represents further accretive organic growth opportunities available to the AST SpaceMobile platform facilitated by our first-mover advantages in space-based cellular broadband, our development of the commercial ecosystem as well as our recent strong capital markets access to growth capital.

SatCo based in Luxembourg is continuing to scale with key leadership and employee hires, accelerating our commercialization efforts in Europe, with MOUs signed in 21 of 27 member states to date.

Linking our strategies back to third quarter performance, we grew to double-digit revenue with approximately $15 million of recognized revenue on the back of milestones in our U.S. government contracts and delivery and installation of gateway equipment versus approximately $2 million in the prior quarter. This represents continued progress with our U.S. government work and the acceleration of gateway deliveries and installations with our mobile network operator customers in the U.S. and globally.

With this progress and our expectations going into year-end, we continue to expect second half 2025 revenue in the range of $50 million to $75 million. We also replenished the pipeline of gateway bookings with approximately $14 million in new gateway equipment sales during Q3 and we continue to believe we will book over $10 million of new gateway equipment sales per quarter on average.

For a little more detail on our U.S. government business, our breakthrough technology continues to garner interest from many U.S. defense and government entities for both dedicated and dual-use applications. Our differentiated technology and growing list of capabilities across communications and noncommunications use cases fits nicely within the framework of the current administration's space and on-orbit plans.

This is the most positive backdrop for U.S. government investment in space since the space race of the 1960s. We see no change to this massive trend over the past few months despite the government shutdown. In fact, we recently received an award as a prime contractor with the U.S. government, subject to final contract negotiations when the government reopens.

In summary, we continue to ramp our U.S. government efforts as we plan for large contracts going forward. Overall, we are encouraged with our commercialization progress to date and believe our recent achievements across both commercial and government initiatives serve as important signals of our continued positive momentum.

I'm now happy to pass the call over to Andy to walk through our financial update.

Andrew Johnson
Executive VP, CFO, Chief Legal Officer & Director

Thanks, Scott, and good afternoon, everyone. The progress on commercial objectives, service activation, scaled manufacturing and launch of our Block 2 BlueBird satellites described by Abel and Scott was complemented by the continued strength and flexibility of our financial position during the third quarter of 2025. This year has been characterized by rapid growth at AST SpaceMobile, the transition from an emerging R&D-focused start-up to an operating company on the path to optimizing our manufacturing and launch cadence has been hard, yet invigorating and gratifying work for our now nearly 1,800 person worldwide workforce.

The speed at which we are moving across all operational fronts to manufacture and launch a constellation of 45 to 60 Block 2 BlueBird satellites creates a dynamic financial backdrop that I am pleased to share with you in more detail today. We continue to balance a prudent approach to our spending while moving quickly to protect and capitalize on our first-mover advantage of bringing space-based broadband connectivity, direct unmodified smartphones in the rapidly growing direct-to-device market.

This intentional focus on investing in our operational growth led to increased operating expenses in Q3, while capital expenditures decreased from the prior quarter as capital commitments ebb and flow as expected from quarter-to-quarter. Importantly, this quarter marked the start of our revenue ramp with revenue from commercial hardware sales, services and contract awards from our U.S. government milestone achievements.

Moving to the operating and capital metrics slide. Let's review the key operating metrics for the third quarter of 2025. On the first chart, for the third quarter, we incurred non-GAAP adjusted operating expenses of $67.7 million versus $51.7 million in the second quarter. As a reminder, non-GAAP adjusted operating expenses exclude some noncash operating costs, including depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation.

This quarter-over-quarter increase of $16.0 million resulted from a $7.6 million increase in adjusted engineering service costs, a $5.5 million increase in the cost of goods sold and a $3.8 million increase in adjusted general and administrative costs, which were partially offset by an approximately $900,000 reduction in R&D costs. This variance in adjusted OpEx in Q3 was above the quarterly guidance I provided after the second quarter due in part to the approximately $7.1 million of nonrecurring transaction-related expenses, including our L-Band and S-Band spectrum transactions, the nonrecourse senior secured delayed draw term loan facility and now completed pre-regulatory approval bridge loan in addition to the continued work of standing up our joint venture with Vodafone, which we launched in the second quarter.

The Q3 adjusted operating expenses guidance I gave in our last earnings call did not include any cost of goods sold related to gateway sales. If you compare our Q3 operating expenses on that same basis by excluding the $5.5 million in cost of goods sold, our run rate operating expense would be $55.1 million, which is approximately $5 million more than the run rate guidance for adjusted OpEx previously provided.

Turning towards the second chart on this slide. Our capital expenditures for the third quarter of 2025 were approximately $259 million versus $323 million for the second quarter of 2025. This figure was made up of approximately $231 million of capitalized direct materials, labor for our Block 2 BlueBird satellites and payments made in connection with multiple launch contracts with the balance relating to facility and production equipment expenditures. This amount was just below the midpoint of the quarterly guidance of $225 million to $300 million that I provided during our last earnings call.

For the fourth quarter of 2025, we estimate that our adjusted operating expenses, excluding cost of goods sold, will come in at a similar range in the mid-$60 million. As we continue to design, manufacture, launch and operate our growing satellites constellation as well as pursue the monetization of our L and S-Band spectrum usage rights. We expect our capital expenditures to increase slightly in Q4 of 2025 as compared to the third quarter to a range of $275 million to $325 million, primarily driven by the timing of launch payments related to our near-term launches, which, as I've previously explained, do vary from quarter to quarter.

We continue to estimate that the average capital costs, including direct materials and launch costs for our constellation of over 90 Block 2 BlueBird satellites will fall in the range of $21 million to $23 million per satellite. This is the same range of per satellite cost that I've provided since our Q1 2025 earnings.

Our cost per satellite estimates are subject to fluctuations based on dynamic geopolitical factors, which could impact our costs. Within our go-forward OpEx profile, we continue to believe that the operation of a constellation of 25 BlueBird satellites will allow us to enable noncontinuous space mobile service in selected targeted geographical markets and should enable us to potentially generate cash flows from operating activities from both commercial and U.S. government opportunities to further support the buildup of the remaining constellation.

As a reminder, the timing of the changes in our adjusted operating expenses and capital expenditures, as I have just described, could be delayed or may not be realized due to a variety of factors.

Our revenue ramp began in earnest during the third quarter, and we expect it to continue to grow in Q4. With respect to revenue generation, we believe we can enable continuous space mobile service across key markets such as the United States, Europe, Japan and other strategic markets with the launch and operation of approximately 45 to 60 BlueBird satellites and additional strategic worldwide markets with the launch and operation of approximately 90 BlueBird satellites. Further, as we continue to launch and deploy our constellation, we will continue to support U.S. government applications currently ongoing and accelerating as our constellation grows.

In the third quarter, we recognized GAAP revenue of $14.7 million, primarily driven by gateway hardware sales and various commercial and U.S. government service milestone achievements. Additionally, in Q3, we completed initial technical trials with an MNO partner, which revenue will be accounted for as we provide future services.

We are reiterating our belief that we have a revenue opportunity for 2025 in the range of $50 million to $75 million and expect revenue in Q4 will continue to be driven by gateway equipment sales, achievement of U.S. government milestones and recognition of initial commercial service revenue. The achievement of our revenue plan remains subject to several contingencies, including, one, the successful launch and deployment of Block 2 BlueBird satellites related to U.S. government applications contractual milestone achievements; two, critical gateway equipment sales to our MNO partners in support of their anticipated commercialization efforts of space mobile service; and three, service revenues in connection with the activation of our commercial service provided by our existing and planned deployed and operational satellites. There can be no assurances that we will achieve any or all of these objectives and our actual revenue results will vary based on a multitude of factors.

Finally, on the final chart on the slide, on a pro forma basis, inclusive of cash raised in October via the convertible notes offering with a 2.00% 10-year coupon at an effective strike price of $96.30 per share, and the currently available liquidity under the at-the-market or ATM facility, our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash as of September 30, 2025, was approximately $3.2 billion. Primary drivers for this cash increase include execution of 2 convertible notes offerings in July and October for a total of approximately $1.6 billion of net proceeds, approximately $389 million net proceeds raised from the 2025 ATM facilities during Q3 and through October and the unwinding of the CAP call that we purchased earlier this year in connection with the January 2025 convertible note offering for $74.5 million of proceeds to the company.

In addition to the work we did raising additional capital via the recent 2% 10-year convertible notes, we also took action since our last earnings call by further reducing our outstanding debt related to the January 2025 convertible notes due in 2032. Among 3 equitization transactions, including another $50 million equitized in October, we have now converted $410 million of the outstanding $460 million of the 4.25% convertible notes due in 2032 into 17.3 million Class A shares. We now have just $50 million of outstanding notes related to our January 2025 convertible notes due in 2032.

I should also mention that, subsequent to Q3, in October, we put in place a bridge facility to manage onetime payments related to the Ligado L-band usage rights transaction ahead of planned funding by the SPV delayed draw term loan upon receiving FCC approval.

Given the current strength of our balance sheet that now includes cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and available liquidity under the ATM facility of over $3.2 billion on a pro forma basis as of September 30, we are fully funded to manufacture and launch a constellation of over 100 satellites to provide worldwide space mobile service. The combination of increasing commercial and government opportunities, rapidly scaling manufacturing and satellite launch operations and a fortified balance sheet position AST SpaceMobile for an exciting end to 2025.

Through the third quarter of 2025, we remain on target to execute against our plans to bring space mobile service to market in the coming periods as we begin to launch our Block 2 BlueBird satellites beginning in December.

And with that, this completes the presentation component of our business update call, and I'll pass it back to Scott. Thank you.

Scott Wisniewski
President & Chief Strategy Officer

Thank you, Andy. Before we go to the queue of analyst questions, I would like to address a few of the questions submitted by our investors. Operator, could you please start us off with the first question?