Amtech Systems, Inc. (ASYS) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 10, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Robert Daigle - President, Chairman & CEO
Wade Jenke - Secretary, VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Jordan Darrow - Darrow Associates Inc.
Craig Irwin - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Michael Legg - Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. Inc., Research Division
Mark Miller - The Benchmark Company, LLC, Research Division
George Marema

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Amtech Systems Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. Please note that this call is being recorded and simultaneously webcast.

I would now like to turn the call over to Jordan Darrow of Darrow Associates Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Jordan Darrow
Darrow Associates Inc.

Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. We appreciate you joining us for Amtech Systems' Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2025 Conference Call and Webcast. With me today on the call are Bob Daigle, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Wade Jenke, Chief Financial Officer. After close of market today, Amtech released its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2025. The earnings release is posted on the company's website at www.amtechsystems.com in the Investors section.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that the safe harbor disclaimer in our public filings covers this call and the webcast. Some of the comments to be made during today's call without contain -- will contain forward-looking statements and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those contained in our SEC filings, all of which are posted in the Investors section of our corporate website. The company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of today. These statements are not a guarantee of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from current expectations.

Among the important factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are changes in technologies used by customers and competitors, change in volatility and the demand for products, the effect of changing worldwide political and economic conditions, including trade sanctions, the effect of overall market conditions, including equity and credit markets and market acceptance risks; ongoing logistics, supply chain and labor matters and capital allocation plans.

Other risk factors are detailed in our SEC filings, including our Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. Additionally, in today's conference call, we will be referencing non-GAAP financial measures as we discuss the fiscal fourth quarter financial results. You will find a reconciliation of those non-GAAP measures to our actual GAAP results included in the press release issued today.

I will now turn the call over to Amtech's Chief Executive Officer, Bob Daigle.

Robert Daigle
President, Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Jordan, and good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. I'm pleased to report that our fourth quarter performance was above expectations with revenue of $19.8 million versus a guidance range of $17 million to $19 million. Strength in demand for the equipment we produce for AI applications continues to be our primary growth driver. However, both our Thermal Processing Solutions and our Semiconductor Fabrication Solutions segments did exceed forecast, reflecting our strong position for advanced packaging solutions in AI markets and more stable demand within the mature node semiconductor market.

Adjusted EBITDA also came in above expectations at $2.6 million or about 13% of revenue versus the mid-single-digit EBITDA expected. These recent results are demonstrating our strong operating leverage and ability to generate cash. We ended the quarter with almost $18 million of cash on the balance sheet and continue to have no debt after paying it off last year. The cash swing over the past 2 fiscal years enabled us to eliminate our debt, which stood at over $10 million and increased our cash to current levels. Our stronger-than-expected results for the quarter reflect the combined contribution of improved operational discipline, the benefits of our transition to a more flexible semi-fabless manufacturing model and our focus on higher-margin products where we have competitive advantages.

Expanding on our end markets, within the Thermal Processing Solutions segment, advanced semiconductor packaging remained a highlight this quarter with continued strength driven primarily by ongoing investments in AI infrastructure. For context, in the fourth quarter, revenue from equipment used for AI infrastructure accounted for over 30% of our Thermal Processing Solutions revenue versus 25% in the prior quarter. Based on our channel checks, we see no slowdown for this area of our business.

Related to revenue mix, we generated about 60% of our revenue from capital equipment and 40% from reoccurring revenue, including consumables, parts and services. The balance between capital equipment and reoccurring revenue is important and reflects our strategy to expand higher-margin reoccurring revenue streams while we fully capitalize on opportunities for equipment used to expand AI infrastructure. As we look ahead, our fourth quarter bookings suggest we should continue to see strength for AI-related equipment revenue. To fully capitalize on this growth opportunity, we are continuing to invest in next-generation equipment that enables volume production of higher-density advanced packaging and electronic assemblies to increase our addressable market and the value we provide to customers.

Turning to our Semiconductor Fabrication Solutions segment. As we indicated last quarter, demand for front-end equipment and consumables tied to mature node semiconductor applications in industrial and automotive markets remained weak. That said, performance in this segment slightly exceeded our expectations in the quarter. Beyond the cyclical ebbs and flows of this market, we remain committed to controlling our own destiny by investing in applications and product development to solve problems faced by our customers. We expect these initiatives to deepen customer relationships and increase reoccurring revenue streams as customers qualify our products and scale production. While these initiatives will take time to scale, we are encouraged by the level of customer interest and engagement. This is all part of our strategy to overserve the underserved.

As a relatively small player in a very large overall market for semiconductor consumables and equipment, we are targeting high-end, high-margin applications where we can leverage strong technical capabilities and provide exceptional service. End markets include med tech and defense applications, among others, where we have strong customer engagement enabled by our foundry service and differentiated capabilities so we can develop sticky reoccurring revenue streams.

Over the past 18 months, we've made tremendous progress optimizing our operating model and improving our cost structure. We implemented a series of cost reduction initiatives that included the elimination of some unprofitable products and a shift of some products to outsourced partners to reduce labor and fixed overhead costs. These initiatives, which include consolidation of our manufacturing footprint from 7 sites to 4 sites resulted in $13 million of annualized savings. Looking ahead, we expect to realize additional savings by subletting underutilized factories. These actions have significantly reduced our EBITDA breakeven point, improved our ability to scale profitably with higher volumes.

With the majority of major optimization initiatives completed, we are now focused on growth initiatives to fully capitalize on AI equipment opportunities and increase our reoccurring revenue.

Our improved financial performance, prospects for continued operating cash flow generation, CapEx-light business model and a strong balance sheet have provided us with the flexibility to return capital to shareholders while also investing in growth opportunities. So Amtech's Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program of up to $5 million of the company's common stock for a 1-year period.

In summary, we have a strong foundation for growth driven by AI market opportunities and differentiated capabilities. The changes we've made to optimize our business model and streamline our product portfolio have created strong operating leverage, which positions us well to elevate profitability as we grow and create meaningful shareholder value.

With that, I'll turn it over to Wade for further details on our financial results.

Wade Jenke
Secretary, VP & CFO

Great. Thank you, Bob. Net revenues increased sequentially from the third quarter, driven primarily by strong demand in Asia for reflow ovens used in AI applications. The decrease in net revenues compared to the same period last year reflects higher AI-related revenues, offset by substantially lower mature node semiconductor revenues, primarily for sales of wafer cleaning equipment and parts in our Semi Fabrication Solutions segment. In our Thermal Processing Solutions segment, diffusion furnaces and high-temperature furnaces drove the decline in sales.

GAAP gross margin decreased by $0.3 million sequentially from the prior quarter and decreased $1 million compared to the same prior year period. The decrease from the prior quarter was due to the onetime Employee Retention Credit received in the third quarter of 2025. The decrease in gross margin from the same prior year period is primarily due to lower sales volume in the mature node semiconductor market. Gross margin as a percentage of sales increased from 40.7% in the same prior year period, up to 44.4% this current year quarter, driven by cost save initiatives and product mix. Compared against the third quarter of 2025 and excluding the ERC onetime credit, gross margin would have been 41.5% versus the current fourth quarter of 44.4% gross margin, showing a nice sequential improvement.

Selling, General and Administrative expenses decreased $1 million sequentially from the prior quarter and decreased $2.4 million compared to the same prior year period. The decrease from the prior quarter and the same prior year period is primarily due to cost reduction efforts around overhead expenses and cost structure changes to reduce our fixed costs.

Research, Development and Engineering expenses increased by $0.2 million sequentially from the prior quarter and decreased $0.4 million compared to the same prior year period. The increase from the prior quarter is primarily due to growth initiatives and the decrease compared to the same prior year period is primarily due to a more focused approach to our investments in innovation.

GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025 was $1.1 million or $0.07 per share. This compares to GAAP net income of $0.1 million or $0.01 per share for the preceding quarter and GAAP net loss of $0.5 million or $0.04 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024. Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025 was $1.4 million or $0.10 per share. This compares to non-GAAP net income of $0.9 million or $0.06 per share for the preceding quarter and non-GAAP net loss of $7,000 or $0.0 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024.

Unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2025, were $17.9 million compared to $11.1 million at September 30, 2024, due primarily to the company's focus on operational cash generation, working capital optimization, strong accounts receivable collections from customers, accounts payable management and the employee retention credit.

Now turning to our outlook. For the first quarter, fiscal ending December 31, 2025, the company expects revenue in the range of $18 million to $20 million. AI-related equipment sales for the Thermal Processing Solutions segment is anticipated to partially offset the transitions in our business related to mature node semiconductor product lines with the benefit of previously implemented structural and operational cost reductions, Amtech expects to deliver solid operating leverage, resulting in adjusted EBITDA margins in the high single digits. Amtech remains focused on driving further efficiency gains and cost optimization across all operations, positioning the company to expand margins and generate more consistent profitability going forward.

Operations can be significantly impacted positively or negatively by the timing of orders, system shipments, logistical challenges and the financial results of semiconductor manufacturers. Additionally, although the company has been generating more revenues from recurring and consumable sales, the balance of the business is from semiconductor equipment industries, which can be cyclical and inherently impacted by changes in market demand and capacity utilization.

The outlook provided during our call today and in our earnings press release is based on an assumed exchange rate between the United States dollar and foreign currencies. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to the United States dollar could cause actual results to differ from expectations.

As you may have seen in our 8-K filing, I have submitted my resignation as Chief Financial Officer, effective as of the close of business on December 29, 2025. My decision to step down is not a result of any dispute or disagreement with Amtech Systems. The decision is based upon my personal and family interest in mind. I'll be assuming an executive role at a different company. I have agreed to serve in a consulting capacity for a period of up to 6 months to assist with the closing of the first quarter of fiscal 2026, preparation and filing of the 2026 Annual Meeting proxy statement and the transition of my duties to a new CFO. Amtech Systems plans to launch a search for a new CFO immediately.

I want to take a moment to thank the Amtech Systems team who has achieved and improved substantially under my tenure. I also want to thank Bob Daigle for his tremendous vision and leadership as CEO. I have learned so much, and I will be eternally grateful for the opportunity. Thank you.

And I will now turn the call over to the operator for questions.