Aritzia Inc. (ATZ:CA) Q3 2026 Earnings Call January 8, 2026 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Beth Reed - Vice President of Investor Relations
Jennifer Wong - CEO & Non-Independent Director
Todd Ingledew - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Irene Nattel - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Luke Hannan - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
Corey Tarlowe - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Brian Morrison - TD Cowen, Research Division
Jonathan Keypour - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Mark Petrie - CIBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Joseph Civello - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Mauricio Serna Vega - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Christopher Li - Desjardins Securities Inc., Research Division
Irwin Boruchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Michael Glen - Raymond James Ltd., Research Division
Martin Landry - Stifel Nicolaus Canada Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. This is the conference operator. Welcome to Aritzia's Third Quarter 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] and the conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Beth Reed, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Beth Reed
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, operator, and thank you all for joining Aritzia's Third Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. On the call today, I'm joined by Jennifer Wong, our Chief Executive Officer; and Todd Ingledew, our Chief Financial Officer.

As a reminder, please note that remarks on this call may include our expectations, future plans and intentions that may constitute forward-looking information. Such forward-looking information is based on estimates and assumptions made by management regarding, among other things, general economic and geopolitical conditions as well as the competitive environment. Actual results may differ materially from the conclusions, forecasts or projections expressed by the forward-looking information.

We would refer you to our most recently filed management discussion and analysis and our annual information form, which include a summary of the material assumptions as well as risks and factors that could affect our future performance and our ability to deliver on the forward-looking information. Our earnings release, the related financial statements and the MD&A are available on SEDAR as well as the Investor Relations section of our website.

I'll now turn the call over to Jennifer.

Jennifer Wong
CEO & Non-Independent Director

Thanks, Beth, and good afternoon, everyone. I hope all of you had a wonderful holiday season. I'm pleased to share that Q3 of fiscal 2026 was another standout quarter. Our teams executed on our strategic growth levers at a high level across the entire business, and our strong momentum has continued into the fourth quarter with record-breaking results over the holiday shopping season.

In Q3, we achieved for the first time ever $1 billion quarter. Total net revenue of $1.04 billion was well above the top end of our guidance range. Sales in October and November exceeded our expectations, particularly as we started to lap the exceptional top line growth beginning at the end of Q3 last year.

On a 2-year stack, trends accelerated sequentially throughout the quarter. This was fueled by broad-based strength across channels and geographies. The unparalleled demand for our everyday luxury offering, combined with our digital initiatives, new boutique openings and strategic marketing investments drove a 43% top line increase over last year. We're extremely pleased with our performance across both channels, with net revenue increasing 58% in e-commerce and 35% in retail.

Comparable sales grew an outstanding 34% fueled by double-digit positive growth in all channels and all geographies, led by our U.S. e-commerce business. The holiday season was off to a great start as we delivered another record-breaking Black Friday event. Retail sales in both Canada and the United States hit all-time daily highs with nearly 60% of our boutiques, achieving all-time sales record. E-commerce sales in both Canada and the U.S. also hit record daily highs.

In addition, we benefited from lower markdowns compared to last year's event driven by increasing affinity for our brand, broad-based demand for our product and our strong inventory position. During the quarter, our performance in the United States continued to drive our overall results. In Q3, we generated a 54% increase in U.S. net revenue. This highlights the extraordinary demand for our product and the tremendous momentum of the Aritzia brand. Our results were fueled by accelerated growth in e-commerce, supported by the launch of our mobile app and our investments in marketing.

In addition, our new and repositioned boutiques over the last 12 months continued to perform well. We also generated outstanding comparable sales growth in our existing boutiques. In Canada, we accelerated our sales growth for a fourth consecutive quarter. We achieved a 29% increase in net revenue in Q3. This was fueled by exceptional performance in e-commerce and strong comp growth in our boutiques.

In our retail channel, we delivered net revenue growth of 35%. This was driven by the success of our real estate expansion strategy and strong boutique comp growth in both countries. Over the past 12 months, total retail square footage growth was in the high teens. We opened a total of 13 new and 4 repositioned boutiques. This included 5 new boutiques in the third quarter, all in the United States as well as the reposition of our Flatiron flagship.

The strong comp growth in our boutiques continue to be primarily driven by traffic. This was fueled by the increasing affinity for our brand, which we supported with our strategic investments in marketing. Our real estate expansion strategy continues to yield exceptional results. This underscores the vast opportunity for growth in the United States, where we have just 72 boutiques today. The boutique we've opened in the U.S. in fiscal 2026, they are tracking to payback in less than 1 year on average.

This continues to be our target of 12 to 18 months. In Q4, we expect to open 4 new boutiques in the United States. These include locations in Cincinnati, which is a new market for us as well as in Las Vegas, Los Angeles and Scottsdale. We've also already opened and repositioned boutiques in Laval, Quebec. Our immersive retail experience is truly unmatched. This includes our operational store design, passionate style advisers, incredible cafes and of course, our beautiful product. Our boutiques, particularly our flagship are the best showcase of the Aritzia everyday luxury brand ethos.

In November, we opened our third New York City flagship located right in the heart of Manhattan's iconic Flatiron District. It's just a couple of blocks away from our original boutique, which opened in 2015, and now a decade later, our new space is nearly 2x larger and it includes it's very own AOK Cafe. To celebrate, we hosted a series of exclusive events, which garnered significant social and media coverage, amplifying the enthusiasm for our brand and introducing Aritzia to new audiences.

Every flagship marks a major milestone for our business. With every launch, we've raised the bar, refining and perfecting our strategy along the way. Our Flatiron flagship is a testament to that progress, celebrating the passion, collaboration and drive of our team as we continue building momentum and shaping our success across the United States. In e-commerce, we delivered an increase in net revenue of 58%. This was driven by the increasing appreciation for our brand as well as the successful launch of our mobile app. Our focus on full funnel marketing continued to fuel website traffic, which increased meaningfully in both countries. We also continue to benefit from site enhancements, operational improvements and higher omnichannel engagement.

The launch of our mobile app at the end of October achieved exceptional results and surpassed even our highest expectations. We drove strong adoption and excitement with elevated marketing and an exclusive product drop that sold out in just 1 day in the U.S. The Aritzia app was the most downloaded app in the entire app store on its first day. In Canada, it remains the #1 shopping app for 9 days straight. In the U.S., it was #1 for 4 days. Total downloads to date are more than 1 million, far exceeding our expectations for the entire first year and reflecting the love clients have for our brand. Clients were quick to discover the value the Aritzia app provides to them, including greater access to our product assortment, styling expertise and guidance and exclusive product and content. This is driving increased conversion and helping further fuel the momentum in our e-commerce business.

We've already launched new app features and updates to elevate the client experience with many more to come. In addition, our new international e-commerce website continued to perform well. Sales in the quarter more than doubled compared to Q3 last year. This enhanced shopping experience is already fueling higher revenue growth through increased conversion. Turning now to product. Throughout the third quarter, our assortment continued to resonate with clients across both Canada and the United States. Our fall and winter launch was exceptionally strong. We saw a positive client response across our iconic franchises, new styles and new colors. We offered excitement through the launch of the app, including collabs and drops such as the Nike Aritzia collab and the multiple color [Sweatleece drop]. In addition, we remain well positioned with the right inventory in the right place to drive sales.

Our rigorous focus on inventory and the exceptional demand for our brand enabled us to deliver an improvement in the year-over-year markdown rate and higher full price sell-through. We continue to refine our integrated marketing approach to help grow awareness, build brand affinity and emphasize the features behind Aritzia's unique value proposition. These include our high-quality beautiful products, our aspirational shopping environment and our engaging client service and our captivating communication, all at attainable price points. We're reaching more and more new clients while reinforcing our connection with existing clients. This is a key contributor to the outstanding momentum in our business.

In the quarter, we also continued to leverage product collaborations to introduce Aritzia to new audiences. This further amplifies our brand and creates interesting moments to captivate our clients. In Q3, this included the partnership with Nike as well as our collab with Salt & Stone. Both of these created excitement and helped drive traffic online and in our boutiques. As I mentioned earlier, our strong performance has continued into the fourth quarter with another record-breaking holiday period. Excellent operational execution across our 3 strategic growth levers, geographic expansion, digital growth and increased brand awareness is driving sustained brand momentum and keeping Aritzia top of mind. This momentum, along with our proven operating model and healthy balance sheet gives me immense confidence in our long-term goals for the business.

As we look to fiscal 2027, we remain steadfast in further advancing our growth levers. First, our real estate strategy has continued to perform exceptionally well. We have yet another exciting pipeline of boutiques in premier locations planned for next fiscal year. Second, we have several digital initiatives that will support continued momentum in our e-commerce channel. These include additional app features and enhancements, further digital marketing optimization and client engagement initiatives. Third, our new boutiques and marketing investments are proven multiyear strategies to help grow brand awareness in the United States. We also plan to keep making strategic investments to fuel our rapid growth. This includes investments in infrastructure, such as technology and the second distribution center in the United States.

As always, we will continue with a long-term focus and balance investing for the future with driving profitable growth. In closing, I'd like to thank our people for their unwavering commitment to creativity, excellence and teamwork. Without this dedication, our incredible achievements in 2025 would not have been possible. What's even more impressive is these exceptional results came against the backdrop of significant macroeconomic challenges. Our teams have set the standard for everyday luxury, and I couldn't be more proud. With that, I'll now hand it over to Todd to discuss the details of our financial performance.

Todd Ingledew
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Jennifer, and good afternoon, everyone. In the third quarter of fiscal 2026, we generated record net revenue of over $1 billion. Top line growth in both the United States and Canada was well above our expectations. We also continue to expand our margins, all combining to deliver a 55% increase in adjusted net income per diluted share. Turning to the details of our performance. Third quarter net revenue increased 43% from last year to $1.04 billion. This was above our guidance range of 20% to 24% as trends from the middle of October through the end of the quarter exceeded even our highest expectations. Comparable sales grew 34%, driven by outstanding growth in all channels and across all geographies. Here's what drove this unprecedented performance.

First, we saw an exceptional response to our winter product. This was supported by our strong inventory position. Second, we generated accelerated momentum in e-commerce, fueled by the successful launch of our mobile app. Third, our performance was further driven by total retail square footage growth in the high teens. And finally, our increased investments in full funnel marketing generated substantial traffic growth and helped sustain our brand momentum. In the United States, third quarter net revenue increased 54% to $621 million. This was driven by tremendous momentum in our U.S. e-commerce business, powered by traffic growth of nearly 60%. In the U.S., we also benefited from square footage growth of approximately 30%, including a total of 15 highly productive new and repositioned boutiques over the last 12 months.

In addition, we delivered outstanding comp growth in our existing boutiques. The consistent momentum we are generating gives us great confidence in our long runway for growth in the U.S. as we bring Aritzia to new markets and strengthen our presence in existing markets. In Canada, net revenue growth increased sequentially for a fourth consecutive quarter, up 29% to $419 million. This was driven by accelerated growth in e-commerce, which was supported by the launch of our mobile app and strong comparable sales growth in our boutiques. Turning to our sales channels. In e-commerce, net revenue increased 58% to $383 million. This tremendous performance was fueled by strong traffic growth driven by exceptional demand for our products, the successful launch of our mobile app, our investments in digital marketing and the halo effect from our new boutique openings.

In retail, net revenue increased 35% to $657 million. This was driven by the ongoing strong performance of our new and expanded boutiques as well as outstanding comparable sales growth in our existing boutiques. Importantly, boutique openings continue to be our most predictable driver of top line growth, enhancing brand visibility and supporting client acquisition in both new and existing markets. This top line performance was instrumental in delivering gross profit of $479 million, an increase of 44% compared to the third quarter last year. Gross profit margin expanded 30 basis points to 46% despite 410 basis points of pressure related to tariffs and the elimination of the de minimis. This pressure was more than offset by leverage on fixed costs, improved markdowns and freight tailwinds.

SG&A expenses for the quarter were $290 million, leveraging 170 basis points as a percentage of net revenue to 27.9%. The improvement was primarily driven by expense leverage and savings from our Smart Spending initiative. Adjusted EBITDA was $208 million, an increase of 52% compared to the third quarter last year. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 120 basis points to 20%. The consistent margin improvement we've now delivered for 7 consecutive quarters underscores our dedicated focus on delivering multiyear margin expansion. Excluding the nonoperational FX impact this year and last, adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 220 basis points. Turning to the balance sheet. Inventory was $508 million at the end of the third quarter, up 10% from last year. Our inventory continues to be well positioned to meet client demand and a key driver of our sales momentum.

Our liquidity position is strong with $620 million in cash, no debt and 0 drawn on our $300 million revolving credit facility at the end of the third quarter. With our growing cash balance, we are reviewing our capital allocation strategy with our Board of Directors. In the meantime, we plan to continue to opportunistically repurchase shares under our NCIB. Since the implementation of our NCIB on May 7 and through the end of the third quarter, we repurchased 474,000 shares, returning $41.3 million to shareholders. Turning to our outlook. The strong momentum in our business has continued into the fourth quarter, fueled by another record-breaking holiday season. Given quarter-to-date trends, we expect net revenue in the fourth quarter to be in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.125.

This represents an increase of 23% to 26%, driven by double-digit comparable sales growth and the contribution from our boutique openings. We expect gross profit margin in the fourth quarter to be approximately flat to up 50 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025 as ongoing leverage on our fixed costs and lower markdowns are offset by approximately 400 basis points of pressure from tariffs and the elimination of the de minimis exemption. We forecast SG&A as a percentage of net revenue to be approximately flat to down 50 basis points compared to the fourth quarter last year as expense leverage and savings from our smart spending initiatives are offset by strategic investments in digital and technology to fuel our growth.

Given our year-to-date performance and improved outlook for the fourth quarter, we are raising our net revenue forecast for the full fiscal year to the range of $3.615 billion to $3.64 billion, representing growth of 32% to 33% from last year. We are also increasing our outlook for adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of net revenue to the range of 16.5% to 17% for fiscal 2026. The strength we've generated in our business and our mitigation strategies are more than offsetting the 280 basis points of additional tariff and de minimis pressure this year. Importantly, excluding this pressure, our adjusted EBITDA margin for fiscal 2026 would be above our previous long-term target of 19%.

We are extremely pleased with the sustained momentum in our business, particularly as we've begun to cycle the extremely strong revenue growth starting in November of last year. This puts us well on track to achieve our fiscal 2027 revenue target 1 year early. Our proven operating model, healthy balance sheet and long runway for growth in the United States gives us confidence in our ability to sustain strong momentum in our business. We are executing at a high level, and we continue to make strategic investments to fuel our growth. This leaves us well positioned to create long-term value for our shareholders. Thank you.

Jennifer Wong
CEO & Non-Independent Director

With that, operator, let's please open up the line for questions.

