Aritzia Inc. (ATZ:CA) Q2 2026 Earnings Call October 9, 2025 4:30 PM EDT

Company Participants

Beth Reed - Vice President of Investor Relations
Jennifer Wong - CEO & Non-Independent Director
Todd Ingledew - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Irene Nattel - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Martin Landry - Stifel Nicolaus Canada Inc., Research Division
Mark Petrie - CIBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Stephen MacLeod - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Dylan Carden - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Joseph Civello - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Michael Glen - Raymond James Ltd., Research Division
Brian Morrison - TD Cowen, Research Division
Mauricio Serna Vega - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Christopher Li - Desjardins Securities Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. This is the conference operator. Welcome to Aritzia's Second Quarter 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] The conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I will now turn the conference over to Beth Reed, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Beth Reed
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, operator, and thank you all for joining Aritzia's Second Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. On the call today, I'm joined by Jennifer Wong, our Chief Executive Officer; and Todd Ingledew, our Chief Financial Officer.

As a reminder, please note that remarks on this call may include our expectations, future plans and intentions that may constitute forward-looking information. Such forward-looking information is based on estimates and assumptions made by management regarding, among other things, general economic and geopolitical conditions as well as the competitive environment. Actual results may differ materially from the conclusions, forecasts or projections expressed by the forward-looking information.

We would refer you to our most recently filed management's discussion and analysis and our annual information form, which include a summary of the material assumptions as well as risks and factors that could affect our future performance and our ability to deliver on the forward-looking information. Our earnings release, the related financial statements and the MD&A are available on SEDAR+ as well as the Investor Relations section of our website.

I'll now turn the call over to Jennifer.

Jennifer Wong
CEO & Non-Independent Director

Thanks, Beth. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'm delighted to share that our results for the second quarter of fiscal 2026 exceeded the outlook we provided in July across sales and margin. Trends in July and August surpassed even our highest expectations as we fueled exceptional broad-based strength across channels and geographies. This was driven by continued robust demand for our high-quality beautiful products as our summer assortment seamlessly transitioned to the launch of our fall campaign, which began at the end of July. This, combined with our strong inventory position, strategic marketing investments and new boutique openings drove a 32% top line increase over last year.

We achieved net revenue of $812 million in the second quarter, well above the top end of our guidance range. We're extremely pleased with our performance in both channels with net revenue increasing 34% in retail and 26% in e-commerce. Comparable sales grew an outstanding 22% fueled by double-digit positive growth in all channels and all geographies, led by our U.S. e-commerce business. Our performance in the United States continued to drive our overall results.

In the second quarter, we generated a 41% increase in U.S. net revenue, underscoring the strength and growing awareness of the Aritzia brand. Our results were fueled by the strong performance of our new and repositioned boutiques over the last 12 months. In addition, elevated demand for our products drove continued momentum in e-commerce, which we supported through strategic investments in marketing.

We also generated outstanding comparable sales growth in our existing boutiques. During the quarter, we continued to focus on driving brand awareness and fueling the growing appreciation for our everyday luxury offering. We've seen outstanding new customer growth in the United States, where our base of loyal clients expands quarter after quarter. We're also super pleased with our second quarter results in Canada. We accelerated our sales growth for a third consecutive quarter, achieving a 21% increase in net revenue in Q2.

We continue to maintain strong loyalty in Canada as clients responded well to our product assortment. In addition, our marketing investments helped drive double-digit growth in our active client base. In our retail channel, we delivered net revenue growth of 34% in the second quarter. This was driven by the success of our real estate expansion strategy as well as strong comparable sales growth in both the United States and Canada. Over the past 12 months, we increased our retail square footage by 25%, opening a total of 13 new and 4 repositioned boutiques. This included 3 new boutiques and 1 reposition boutique in the second quarter, all in the United States.

We also generated high teens comparable sales growth in our existing boutiques. This is primarily driven by traffic growth due to the elevated demand for our product and supported by our strategic investments in marketing. Our real estate expansion strategy continues to yield exceptional results. This underscores the vast opportunity for growth in the United States, where we have just 68 boutiques today. The boutique we've opened in the U.S. in fiscal 2026 are tracking to pay back in less than 1 year on average that exceeds our target of 12 to 18 months. Boutique openings continue to be our most predictable driver of top line growth. They enhance brand visibility and support client acquisition in both new and existing markets.

In Q3, we expect to open 6 new boutiques in the United States. This includes locations in Pittsburgh and Scottsdale, which are new markets for us as well as in Denver, Miami and Minneapolis. We also plan to open our newly repositioned Flatiron flagship in Manhattan. In e-commerce, we delivered an increase in net revenue of 26% in the second quarter. This was driven by the robust demand for our product from our summer assortment to the launch of our fall campaign. Notably, our focus on full funnel marketing fuels an increase in website traffic of nearly 50% in the United States. In addition, we benefited from site enhancements, operational improvements and higher omnichannel engagement.

In late August, we launched our new and improved international e-commerce platform. The site offers an enhanced shopping experience, which is fueling higher revenue growth through increased conversion. Its performance in the first 6 weeks have meaningfully exceeded our expectations, and we're confident we'll hit our target to triple sales within 2 years or less and that's before we've even launched any dedicated marketing, which is still to come. In addition, I'm excited to report that we're on track to launch our mobile app later this month. The Aritzia app is the introduction of an entirely new shopping channel for our clients. It will place duration, selling expertise and our quality product right in their hands.

These new platforms provide clients with greater access to our product assortment, while reducing friction, increasing conversion and most importantly, further fueling the momentum in our e-commerce business.

Turning now to product. Throughout the second quarter, demand for our assortment was broad-based across multiple categories. We saw an outstanding response to our fall launch across all geographies as clients responded well, both to our iconic franchises and our new styles. These included exciting new colors and prints. Due to the success of our spring/summer styles and focus on seasonal transitions, we drove stronger full price selling year-over-year.

In addition, we remain well positioned with the right inventory in the right place to drive sales. Looking ahead, new winter styles and exciting drops and collaborations will surprise and delight our clients. We're confident these will keep clients engaged and attract new clients, all driving continued strong performance. We're continuing to refine our marketing engine across the organization to help grow awareness and spotlight all the different aspects that set Aritzia apart, namely high-quality, beautiful product, aspirational shopping environment, engaging client service and captivating communications, all of which is provided at an attainable price point.

In Q2, we continued to deepen our focus to ensure that everyday luxury is synonymous with the Aritzia brand. Partnerships with Sperry and Whistle helped solidify Aritzia as a destination for exciting brand collaboration. In addition, celebrity sitings in iconically Aritzia pieces reinforced Aritzia as a much loved and highly sought-after brand with aspirational appeal. Our increased investment in digital marketing continues to fuel our growth, both online and in our boutiques. We're continuing to refine our programs and tactics across existing channels while launching new channels to further drive brand awareness. Our focus remains on reinforcing our everyday luxury brand ethos, growing awareness across U.S. demographics and acquiring new clients and retaining existing clients to drive incremental revenue.

Shifting to the current trade environment, Previously, under the de minimis exemption, we utilized our existing supply chain network in Canada to fulfill a portion of U.S. e-commerce orders. However, the removal of the de minimis exemption in August required an operational pivot. We've relocated all U.S. order fulfillment to our distribution center in Ohio, which we strategically expanded last year to 560,000 square feet, more than double its prior size. We've also hired additional staff and pulled forward retrofitting work.

We are now operating at triple the capacity compared to prior to the de minimis removal. And eventually, further optimization will allow us to quadruple our prior capacity. More importantly, there was no impact on the exceptional client service for which we are known and loved. This will allow us to handle U.S. order volume for the next 2 years. I'm extremely proud of our teams for the seamless transition.

Despite headwinds from the elimination of the de minimis and higher reciprocal tariff rates on Vietnam and Cambodia, our proactive mitigation strategies and strong revenue growth have positioned us very well. As a result, our margin outlook for fiscal 2026 is unchanged at 15.5% to 16.5%. We're leveraging our agile global supply chain to minimize tariff exposure where possible. We continue to expect our China sourcing mix to be in the mid-single digits, if not lower for spring 2026. We've also received cost-sharing support from our long-standing supplier partners. In addition, we're continuing to focus on smart spending and IMU improvement to key multiyear initiatives to drive margin expansion.

We continue to navigate macro development from a position of strength. The fact that we're still growing our margins this year in spite of these developments speaks to our agility and ability to execute with excellence. Without reciprocal tariffs and the removal of the de minimis, we would otherwise be tracking to an adjusted EBITDA margin of 18% to 19% for this year. That's in line with our long-range target 1 year early. Looking ahead, we're pleased with the start to our third quarter. The outstanding momentum in our business has continued across all channels and all geographies. We continue to be in a strong product position with the right product in the right place at the right time. We're also in a strong inventory position to meet the robust demand for our product.

In addition, we continue to make progress with our digital initiatives. We're launching our mobile app later this month delivering ongoing site enhancements and operational improvements and continuing to refine our strategic marketing investments, which are all driving traffic and creating demand. And last, but certainly not least, we have a terrific pipeline of 9 new boutiques opening in the back half of this year as well as the reposition of our Flatiron flagship. The momentum in our business, our proven operating model and our healthy balance sheet give us confidence in our path forward as we capitalize on our vast opportunity for growth in the United States and beyond.

In closing, I would like to thank our people for their hard work and commitment to excellence as we grow the Aritzia brand. Our consistent strong results would not be possible without all of our exceptional teams across the business. With that, I'll now hand it over to Todd to discuss the details of our financial performance.

Todd Ingledew
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Jennifer, and good afternoon, everyone. In the second quarter of fiscal 2026, we generated outstanding net revenue growth above our expectations and delivered meaningful gross profit margin expansion and SG&A leverage. This resulted in over 600 basis points of improvement in our adjusted EBITDA margin and adjusted net income per diluted share that nearly tripled compared to the second quarter last year.

Turning to the details of our performance, we delivered net revenue of $812 million in the second quarter, an increase of 32% from last year. This was above our guidance range of 19% to 22% as trends accelerated meaningfully in the back half of the quarter. Comparable sales grew 22%, driven by double-digit growth in all channels and across all geographies.

Here's what drove this strong performance. First, our summer product performed extremely well, and we saw an exceptional response to the launch of our Fall product in late July, supported by our strong inventory position. Our growth was further fueled by a 25% increase year-over-year in total retail square footage. And finally, our increased investments in digital and brand marketing resulted in significant traffic growth across both channels. All of this manifested in a meaningful increase in active clients. In the United States, second quarter net revenue increased 41% to $486 million, exceeding our expectations. Our U.S. e-commerce business was driven by traffic growth of nearly 50%.

In U.S. retail, our performance was driven by the opening of highly productive new and repositioned boutiques as well as strong comparable sales growth in our existing boutiques. Our ongoing success in the United States underscores the strength of our brand and our long runway for continued growth. In Canada, our performance also came in ahead of expectations. Net revenue growth accelerated for a third consecutive quarter, increasing 21% to $326 million. In addition to the strong performance of our product, we continue to benefit from our strategic investments in marketing.

Turning to our sales channels. Retail net revenue was $572 million, an increase of 34%. This was driven by high teens comparable sales growth in our existing boutiques as well as the strong performance of our new and repositioned boutiques. In e-commerce, net revenue was $240 million, an increase of 26%. This was driven by strong traffic growth that was fueled by the positive response to our product as well as the halo effect from new boutique openings and our investments in digital marketing.

We delivered gross profit of $356 million, an increase of 44% compared to the second quarter last year. Gross profit margin expanded 360 basis points to 43.8% despite 220 basis points of pressure from tariffs and the start of the de minimis elimination. The increase was primarily driven by IMU improvements, leverage on store occupancy costs, lower warehousing costs and improved markdowns.

SG&A expenses for the quarter were $250 million, leveraging 160 basis points as a percentage of net revenue to 30.8%. The improvement was primarily driven by expense leverage and savings from our smart spending initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA was $123 million, an increase of 123% compared to the second quarter last year. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 610 basis points to 15.1%. This was driven by our ongoing efforts to deliver multiyear gross profit margin expansion as well as SG&A expense leverage. The margin improvements we've now delivered for 6 consecutive quarters, continue our progress toward achieving our previous adjusted EBITDA margin levels in the high teens.

Turning to the balance sheet. Inventory was $527 million at the end of the second quarter, up 9% from last year. We are pleased with the composition and quantity of our inventory and are well positioned to meet client demand. Our liquidity position is strong with $352 million in cash, no debt and 0 drawn on our $300 million revolving credit facility at the end of the second quarter.

Turning to our outlook. The strong momentum in our business has continued into the third quarter. Given quarter-to-date trends, we now expect net revenue in the third quarter to be in the range of $875 million to $900 million. This represents growth of 20% to 24%, driven by double-digit comparable sales growth and the contribution from our boutique openings.

Our net revenue outlook for the third quarter is based on continued outperformance in the United States as well as strength in Canada. We expect gross profit margin in the third quarter to be approximately flat compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2025. This is driven by IMU improvements and leverage on store occupancy costs offset by approximately 400 basis points of pressure from tariffs and the elimination of the de minimis exemption. We forecast SG&A as a percentage of net revenue to also be approximately flat compared to the third quarter last year as strategic investments in projects to support our growth are offset by expense leverage.

Given our year-to-date performance and improved expectations for the second half of the year, we are raising our net revenue forecast for the full fiscal year to the range of $3.3 billion to $3.35 billion, representing growth of 21% to 22% from fiscal 2025.

Turning to tariffs. We now forecast 280 basis points of tariff-related headwinds for the full fiscal year compared to 150 basis points previously. There are 2 factors driving the 130 basis point increase. First, reciprocal rates on Vietnam and Cambodia increased to 20% and 19%, respectively. They had been at 10%. This results in an incremental 50 basis points of gross margin pressure for the fiscal year.

Second, as Jennifer mentioned, the removal of de minimis exemption means that we will no longer be able to realize duty savings on a portion of our U.S. e-commerce orders. This creates an additional 80 basis points of gross margin pressure for fiscal 2026. Despite the incremental 130 basis points of pressure, our adjusted EBITDA margin forecast for the fiscal year is unchanged at 15.5% to 16.5%. Our ongoing mitigation strategies and the strength of our business fully offset the incremental tariffs and de minimis pressure.

Importantly, excluding the 280 basis points of total tariff and de minimis related pressure, our adjusted EBITDA margin for fiscal 2026 would be in the range of approximately 18% to 19%. We are extremely pleased with the consistency and the strength of our performance. We are well on track to achieve our fiscal 2027 revenue target. We also continue to make strategic investments in our future growth while delivering ongoing margin improvement despite the incremental tariff impacts.

In closing, our product is resonating extremely well with our clients. We have a robust pipeline of new boutiques and our growth opportunity in the United States remains sizable, with only 68 locations currently. Our digital initiatives are helping to build brand awareness, generate loyalty and drive revenue, all positioning us for continued growth now and into the future. The combination of our anticipated revenue growth and margin expansion will drive meaningful multiyear EPS growth and deliver long-term value to our shareholders. Thank you.

Jennifer Wong
CEO & Non-Independent Director

With that, operator, let's please open up the line for questions.