AeroVironment, Inc. (AVAV) Q2 2026 Earnings Call December 9, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Denise Pacioni - Director of Investor Relations
Wahid Nawabi - Chairman of the Board, President & CEO
Kevin McDonnell - Executive VP & Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Greg Konrad - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Samantha Stiroh - BofA Securities, Research Division
Anthony Valentini - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Louie Dipalma - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Peter Schaffrik - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Andre Madrid - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Trevor Walsh - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jonathan Siegmann - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Austin Moeller - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
Peter Skibitski - Alembic Global Advisors
Colin Canfield - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Peter Arment - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Austin Bohlig - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Clarke Jeffries - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AeroVironment's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to the Head of Investor Relations, Denise Pacioni. Please proceed.

Denise Pacioni
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to AeroVironment's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Call. My name is Denise Pacioni, Head of Investor Relations for AeroVironment.

Before we begin, please note that certain information presented on this call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Further information on these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's 10-K and other filings with the SEC, in particular, in the risk factors and forward looking statement portions of such filings. Copies are available from the SEC on the AeroVironment website, www.avinc.com or from our Investor Relations team.

This afternoon, we also filed a slide presentation with our earnings release and posted the presentation to the Investors section of our website under Events and Presentations. The content of this conference call contains time-sensitive information that is accurate only as of today, December 9, 2025. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Joining me today from AeroVironment are Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wahid Nawabi; and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Kevin McDonnell. We will now begin with remarks from Wahid Nawabi. Wahid?

Wahid Nawabi
Chairman of the Board, President & CEO

Thank you, Denise. Welcome, everyone, to our second quarter fiscal year 2026 earnings conference call. I'll begin by summarizing our quarterly performance, followed by Kevin, who will review our financial results in greater detail and then discuss guidance for fiscal year 2026. After this, Kevin, Denise and I will take your questions.

I'm pleased to report excellent quarter financial results while setting new records in multiple areas of our business. Despite the challenges posed by the elongated U.S. government shutdown, we delivered excellent financial results and achieved several strategic milestones that we believe position AV for strong, sustained growth well into the future.

During the quarter, we introduced several innovative products and secured multiple large long-term contracts, a testament to our recipe for innovation and proof that our strategy is winning. The total ceiling value of new contract awards during Q2 reached $3.5 billion, a historic record achievement by AV. This also resulted in record second quarter bookings of nearly $1.4 billion. These achievements underscore that our strategic investments are delivering results and progressing our business to new heights.

We also made significant progress on multiple programs of record that we believe will solidify our leadership in all of the domains in which we participate: Air, Land, Sea, Space and Cyber. With strong top line growth expected on the horizon, we are executing on our expansion plans to further scale our manufacturing capacity and meet accelerating demand across several of our products and programs.

Our proven execution capabilities, combined with the robust pipeline of orders and operational readiness, reinforce our confidence in achieving our industry-leading long-term growth objectives. At the same time, overall, the integration of BlueHalo is exceeding expectations, strengthening our capabilities and positioning AV as the premier next-generation defense tech company.

Let me summarize our key messages for the second quarter of fiscal year 2026, which are included awards with a total contract value of $3.5 billion bolstered bookings to reach an all-time high of nearly $1.4 billion, driven by key program wins that support AV's long-term growth.

Second, we also achieved another record second quarter revenue of nearly $473 million. Third, we launched several new innovative products aligned to our customers' highest priorities and continue to execute on expanding our manufacturing capacity to meet accelerated demand. And fourth, with 93% visibility to the midpoint of our guidance range, we're raising the lower end of our fiscal year 2026 revenue guidance and now expect revenues between $1.95 billion and $2 billion.

Beyond these strong results, the defense industry is at an inflection point and AV is not just prepared to lead, we are ahead of the curve, setting the pace for everyone else to follow. Let's not forget, the U.S. Department of War is firmly committed to shifting their procurement practices towards agile, commercially available products and capabilities, favoring companies that invest their own capital, develop disruptive solutions at speed while transitioning them to full rate production and scaling capacity quickly. This validates the business model AV has embraced not just in the past few years, but over multiple decades.

AV's business model and strategy have always been to invest in innovative and disruptive solutions ahead of customer requirements, scale their production rapidly and deliver decisive advantages that enable our customers to acquire capabilities quickly.

Looking ahead, cost-efficient autonomous drones and counter drone systems enabled by AI and machine learning will define the battlefield. Known for our uncrewed aircraft systems and leading AI integration, we believe AV is uniquely positioned to capitalize on this transformation. AV_Halo, our open architecture software platform is designed to unify command and control, intelligence analysis, synthetic training and autonomous targeting across all domains, creating advanced communication among critical assets during conflict.

By integrating AV_Halo into our portfolio and other platforms, we're delivering a powerful hardware-agnostic ecosystem that enhances the speed, autonomy and interoperability of AV's platforms for our customers. Moreover, we expect that AV_Halo's ability to enable competing products to operate on a common command and control software system will play an increasingly crucial role in U.S. defense procurement decisions.

Our investment and development in AV_Halo is just one example of how AV is ahead of this transformation and is well positioned within the industry. Our level of internal R&D investment and proactive CapEx strategy enable us to accelerate development and scale production ahead of demand. Using internal R&D to advance new products allows our technology to outpace our peers and leads to a faster time to market. We believe this core competency is a key differentiator that allows us to stay ahead of our customers' needs.

Unlike traditional contractors that wait for contract vehicles before building prototypes, we innovate first, bring solutions to market faster. These forward-looking investments are not only fueling the launch of new products, but also translating into significant contract wins, reinforcing our ability to capture emerging opportunities. For example, in our Autonomous Systems segment, our P550 was recently down selected by the U.S. Army's Long Range Reconnaissance Program, or LRR, estimated to be worth approximately $1 billion. Internal investments made on this Group 2 uncrewed solution allowed us to quickly meet the needs and requirements included in the LRR program, and we're confident that our P550 is the best solution for the U.S. Army.

We've also prudently invested in upgrades to our Group III uncrewed aircraft system, JUMP 20 and JUMP 20X, which was recently selected as 1 of 4 options on the U.S. Navy's basic ordering agreement. This significant achievement allows AV to compete for specific U.S. Navy Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance or ISR task orders over the next 5 years in a large and rapidly growing UAS maritime defense market. In addition to these domestic achievements, we're also expanding and experiencing an increase in international demand.

Within our Autonomous Systems segment, we were recently awarded an $874 million sole-sourced IDIQ contract from the U.S. Army for international sales of our small UAS products to include Raven, Puma AE and Puma LE. This IDIQ contract vehicle also allows for the sale of our JUMP 20 medium UAS and Titan series of Counter-UAS solutions. Our strategy is driving tangible results, which is evident in the successful product launches this quarter. We recently unveiled several new offerings, including our next generation of Switchblade Loitering Munitions with our Switchblade 600 Block 2, Switchblade 400 and Switchblade 300 Block 20.

These products were mostly internally funded and developed quickly, helping to expand the Switchblade product line and create long endurance multi-domain anti-armor solutions, ensuring warfighters maintain tactical overmatch in contested environments. We also debuted our next-generation Vapor Compact Long Endurance helicopter or Vapor CLE. This Group II VTOL UAV is fully autonomous and can deliver up to 2 hours of flight, which is double the endurance of typical Group II quadrotor UAV platforms. Our newly integrated NVIDIA Orin onboard computer makes the VAPOR CLE fully autonomous and enables automatic target recognition through AV_Halo VISION computer vision software and AV_Halo WIZARD artificial intelligence machine learning AI/ML processing suite.

On our last earnings call, we discussed the significance of our software solution, AV_Halo. Since then, we have announced that AV was awarded the U.S. Army's contract for Human Machine Integrated Formation, or HMIF program. This award accelerates fielding of multi-domain robotic formations using AV's unified interface of command and control, tactical awareness and autonomy solutions at the tactical edge. As part of this win, AV is going to be the lead software and system integrator for robotic systems on the edge of the battlefield. This award also validates the strength of our approach to software solutions, common controllers and user interfaces and underscores the Army's confidence in AV's ability to deliver mission-critical solutions.

We also just released 2 new products from the AV_Halo Suite, including AV_Halo Cortex, a next-generation intelligence fusion and analysis environment; and AV_Halo Mentor, a war fighter readiness suite that leans on virtual and augmented reality weapons training and mission rehearsal. AV_Halo will continue to roll out more products and offerings that position AV as the core and leading developer in this space. Furthermore, we recently announced a collaboration with Open J-A-U-S or OpenJAUS. OpenJAUS is an open architecture for software framework that allows robots, drones, missiles and ground vehicles to speak the same language.

This integration extends AV_Halo compatibility to seamlessly incorporate robotics, allowing original equipment manufacturers to integrate their platforms faster and more easily. This collaboration strengthens AV's role as a driver and leader of the industry's push towards interoperability. In addition, AV won several key awards in our Space, Cyber and Directed Energy segment with critical new contracts in Laser Communications, Space-related Satellite Communications and Directed Energy.

For example, AV received a $240 million contract for our long-haul laser communication terminals, one of the largest to ever be awarded in this category. This disruptive innovation is moving from lab to orbit, a critical step for AV and the industry. Long-haul laser communications use precision optical links to move enormous amounts of data between satellites faster, more securely and without the vulnerabilities of traditional radio frequency or RF signals. This capability is critical because it creates a resilient high-bandwidth backbone for future space networks, ensuring war fighters and decision-makers get the right information instantly even in contested environments. This win continues to push AV to the center of innovation in space.

Additionally, AV secured a new firm fixed price option for 2 BADGER phased array systems under the SCAR or Satellite Communication Augmentation Resource program. This program represents a tremendous growth opportunity for AV as more BADGER systems move into production.

Lastly, AV was awarded a contract valued at $499 million by the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory to develop material technology and deploy protective solutions to the front lines to guard war fighters against exposure to harmful electromagnetic radiation. Work under this large program known as Helmssman will help deter against directed energy strikes in the future. We continue to set the standard in advanced protective technologies and directed energy defense, positioning AV as a clear leader in safeguarding war fighters against emerging threats.

Further, our disruptive solutions continue to position AV as a leader in next-generation defense. From our family of Switchblade Loitering Munitions to advanced Counter-UAS solutions, we're redefining the battle space. We have unseated incumbents with our LOCUST Laser Weapon System and secured key wins like Freedom Eagle One or FE-1, delivering cost-effective kinetic Counter-UAS solutions for Group 3 and 4 drones and beyond. With our AI and machine learning-driven platforms, we believe AV continues to set the industry standard, positioning us to fully capitalize on the generational opportunities ahead.

During the quarter, we continued to form additional strategic alliances and collaborations that will help AV expand domestically and internationally. In September, we signed a memorandum of understanding with Taiwan's National Chung-Shan Institute of Science and Technology, or NCSIST, to collaborate on autonomous systems and technology to support Taiwan's defense and security needs. We also signed a memorandum of understanding with Korean Air to advance medium uncrewed aircraft systems to the Republic of South Korea. Both of these agreements underscore our expanding international presence and steadfast commitment to providing flexible mission-ready solutions for our customers. Both agreements are centered around AV's JUMP 20 and JUMP 20X systems. These systems provide the kind of operational versatility that continues to grow in popularity in international markets.

We also announced a collaboration with GrandSKY to establish the foundation for a Golden Dome for America Limited Area Defense Architecture at Grand Forks Air Force Base in North Dakota. This collaboration is significant as it marks the first deployment of AV's critical Counter-UAS solution set to secure a U.S. Air Force Base, creating a model that can be replicated across other critical U.S. national security sites.

As the demand for our innovative offerings accelerates, we recognize the critical importance of scaling quickly. Since last year, we have been focused on securing a new facility in Salt Lake City to expand our Switchblade manufacturing further. Plans are progressing on a 100,000 square foot facility that will allow for multiple Switchblade lines and provide additional capacity. This new factory has the potential capacity to produce over $2 billion worth of Switchblades or other AV products per year. We anticipate this factory to be operational about a year from now.

Beyond expanding our own footprint, we're also actively strengthening our supply chain to support anticipated demand continuing to stay ahead of the market. As part of our distributed approach to manufacturing for resiliency and risk diversification, we now have manufacturing sites operating across 12 different states, reinforcing our ability to scale rapidly and reliably.

In addition to scaling operations, we're transforming the defense technology landscape through our acquisition of Blue Halo. We are already realizing meaningful synergies from the Blue Halo acquisition, which Kevin will discuss in further detail. Together, we're building next-generation platforms that fuse Counter-UAS, Space Technologies, Directed Energy, Electronic Warfare, Cyber and Integrated Software Solutions, creating a suite of capabilities unmatched in the industry.

This combination accelerates innovation and continues to position AV as the disruptor driving rapid change in a market hungry for speed, agility and advanced solutions. We are reshaping expectations and setting a new standard for what can be delivered to the U.S. and our allied forces. Before turning the call over to Kevin, who will provide more financial details on our second quarter results, let me conclude with the following comments.

Despite a challenging environment, we delivered a strong quarter. Our continued investment in R&D and capacity expansion is translating into strong growth and key program wins and positioning AV for even more growth in the coming years. We recognize there is a generational shift in the U.S. Department of Defense's procurement strategy and product needs. Our offerings are designed to meet war fighter requirements, and our strategy is fully aligned with these new practices. We're executing on manufacturing expansion and are confident that we can meet increased demand.

Integration of BlueHalo is progressing well, and this acquisition is helping to establish AV as a next-generation defense technology company with unmatched capabilities across multiple domains.

With that, I would like to now turn the call over to Kevin McDonnell for a review of our second quarter financials. Kevin?

Kevin McDonnell
Executive VP & Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Wahid. Today, I'll be reviewing the highlights of our second quarter performance, during which I will occasionally refer to both our press release and earnings presentation available on our website. I will start by commenting on our results for the quarter and then turn to guidance for the remainder of FY '26. While this quarter presented challenges in terms of the U.S. government shutdown and our transition to new operational systems, we are very pleased with the continued business momentum and more importantly, our revenue and adjusted EBITDA outlook for the year remains in the same range despite some of the challenges in Q2.

Next, I'd like to draw your attention to Slide 17 of the earnings presentation. which sets forth the definitions for our customer contracting activity. Going forward, each quarter, we will present -- we will report the total contract awards, bookings, funded backlog and unfunded backlog in the quarter.

Now I'll highlight some of that customer contract activity in the quarter. As Wahid mentioned, we earned awards totaling ceiling of $3.5 billion, and we achieved $1.4 billion of bookings and ended the quarter with $1.1 billion of funded backlog and $1.8 billion of unfunded backlog. We're very pleased that the U.S. Department of War contract activity continued progressing despite the shutdown, and we view this as a testament to the importance of the programs we're involved in. Some of the recent key awards are highlighted on Slide 10 of the earnings presentation. Both segments captured multiple large awards during the quarter.

As Wahid mentioned in his remarks, total -- revenue totaled $472.5 million in the second quarter, which represented a 151% increase over the prior year as reported or a 9% increase on a pro forma basis. Legacy AV organic growth was 21% in the second quarter. Slides 6 and 7 of the earnings presentation show the second quarter and the year-to-date revenue by operating group for each of our 2 segments compared to pro forma FY '25 revenue. The AXS segment recognized $302 million in revenue in the quarter, which represented a 15.7% increase over the FY '25 pro forma revenues.

Precision Strike and Counter-UAS products led revenue growth for this segment with nearly 38% increase -- nearly a 38% increase compared to the pro forma FY '25 second quarter results. Strong Switchblade 600 and Titan sales led to the growth in this operating group. Uncrewed systems, including both our small UAS and medium UAS products improved more than 8% from the pro forma results from the same quarter last year. Uncrewed systems without Ukraine revenues grew more than 50% year-over-year, driven by strong JUMP 20 revenue increase.

The Space, Cyber and Directed Energy segment recognized $171 million of revenue in the quarter, which was similar to the pro forma results from the same quarter last year. The space and directed energy products grew more than 20% in the quarter versus the prior year, with the LOCUST Directed Energy Counter-UAS growth being one of the key drivers. As Wahid mentioned earlier, this segment also received several large contracts this past quarter to include a significant contract for our long-haul laser communications and 2 BADGERS for the U.S. Space Force's SCAR program.

Cyber Emission Systems showed a decline in revenue, largely a result of programs that were discontinued and was negatively impacted by the government shutdown. As mentioned earlier, this segment had a strong quarter with new contracts with a nearly $500 million Helmssman award, among others.

Moving on to gross margins. Slide 13 shows the adjusted product and service gross margin, including reconciliations to GAAP gross margin. Second quarter overall adjusted gross margins were 27% versus 41% in the second quarter of FY '25. As noted, the business landscape of the combined new company has changed significantly with a higher service mix and several products in the early stages of maturation. The second quarter did present some additional challenges to adjusted gross margin. We went live with our Oracle Fusion ERP system upgrade in the quarter. As a result, we experienced some operational inefficiencies and onetime costs related to the go-live.

With that said, we've made a major leap forward in our operational systems as we transition to the cloud to support a multibillion-dollar company. In addition, we saw an unfavorable service product mix and unfavorable product mix, partially as a result of the government shutdown caused by delays in FMS shipments. In addition, we lost revenues in our space, cyber and directory energy businesses during the shutdown. However, we believe the adjusted gross margin should improve in Q3 and be in the high 30s by Q4. We are maintaining our full year outlook for adjusted gross margins in the low 30s.

Moving on to operating expenses. Adjusted SG&A, which is net of intangible amortization and deal and integration costs, was $66.1 million versus $33.2 million in the prior year. The increase is largely a result of a combination with BlueHalo. As a percentage of revenue, adjusted SG&A in the quarter was 14% of revenue versus 17.6% in FY '25. Again, these adjusted SG&A levels represent a shift in the business model, and we expect to end the year in the 12% to 13% range as we begin to realize synergies and achieve higher revenue levels.

R&D expense for the second quarter was $36 million or 7.6% of revenue compared to $28.7 million or 15.2% of revenue in the prior year. Again, this is a shift in the business model, and we expect R&D as a percentage of revenue to end the year between 6% and 7% of revenue, which represents an increase in R&D dollars over the prior year for the combined company.

In terms of adjusted EBITDA, Slide 14 of our earnings presentation shows a reconciliation of GAAP net income to adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA for Q2 was $45 million, up from last year's Q2 of $25.9 million as reported, primarily due to the incremental BlueHalo results. EBITDA as a percentage of revenue was 9.5% in the quarter. Despite some of these onetime costs and impacts from the government shutdown, we continue to forecast the full year adjusted EBITDA between 15% and 16% of revenue. Now turning to non-GAAP earnings per share.

Slide 12 shows the reconciliation of GAAP and adjusted or non-GAAP diluted EPS. The company posted adjusted earnings per diluted share of $0.44 for the second quarter of fiscal 2026 versus $0.47 per diluted share for the second quarter of fiscal 2025, slightly lower due to the same reasons as stated previously.

Moving to the balance sheet. At the close of the second quarter, our total cash and investments amounted to $669 million. As reported last quarter, we now have a completely new balance sheet as a result of the BlueHalo transaction and the convertible debt equity financings completed in Q1. Consequently, many of our balances are not comparable to the prior periods. For instance, our overtime revenue recognition has increased from 41% to 75% year-over-year, driving up unbilled receivables. With that said, unbilled receivables continue to be at a higher level than we are targeting.

Turning to backlog. As noted earlier, our funded backlog at the end of the second quarter was $1.1 billion and unfunded backlog was $2.8 billion. Our visibility to the midpoint of the revenue guidance range is now 93%. I should note that this is consistent with past practice that we include within our visibility revenue from long-term contracts we expect to perform during the fiscal year, but which have not been funded as of this date.

Finally, I'd like to provide you with our updated FY '26 guidance. On Slide 8 of the presentation, we provide fiscal 2026 guidance. Fiscal year revenue is expected to be between $1.95 billion and $2 billion. Adjusted EBITDA remains between $300 million and $320 million, and non-GAAP adjusted EPS is now projected to be between $3.40 and $3.55. The midpoint of our revenue guidance range represents nearly a 15% growth over the pro forma FY '25 results. The lower non-GAAP EPS range is a result of a higher full year projected tax rate, largely driven by the Q2 update of the purchase price allocation of the BlueHalo acquisition.

With the government shutdown impacting both our fiscal Q2 and Q3, we have seen delays in some of the orders and therefore, a shifting of projected revenues to the right. Second half revenue should be split approximately 45% in Q3 and 55% in Q4. The adjusted EBITDA shift will be more pronounced with 70% of the second half EBITDA coming in the fourth quarter.

I'd like to close by echoing Wahid's remarks, we are very well aligned with the U.S. Department of War priorities and those of our allies, and we are excited about our prospects. Despite some of the challenges in Q2, we are confident of meeting our guidance for the year.

Now I'd like to turn things back to Wahid.

Wahid Nawabi
Chairman of the Board, President & CEO

Thanks, Kevin. Before turning the call over for questions, I'd like to reiterate some of the positive momentum entering the third quarter of fiscal year 2026. First, record second quarter awards with a total contract value of $3.5 billion bolstered bookings to reach an all-time high of nearly $1.4 billion, driven by key program wins that support AV's long-term growth.

Second, we also achieved another record second quarter revenue of nearly $473 million. Third, we launched several new innovative products aligned to our customers' highest priorities and continue to execute on expanding our manufacturing capacity to meet accelerated demand. And fourth, with 93% visibility to the midpoint of our guidance range, we are raising the lower end of our fiscal year 2026 revenue guidance and now expect revenues between $1.95 billion and $2 billion.

Our strong second quarter results reinforce our confidence in AV's future and our role in shaping the next era of defense. With integrated capabilities across multiple domains of modern warfare, advanced technologies and the ability to scale rapidly, we believe we are well positioned to meet the Department of War's highest priorities and sustain significant growth in a demand-driven market.

The Department of War has reiterated sharpened focus on speed, scale and commercially driven procurement strategies, all of which plays directly to AV's strengths. This has been our strategy from the very beginning, investing in innovative solutions ahead of demand, scaling rapidly and driving innovation to deliver decisive advantages for our customers. Our alignment with these priorities, combined with our successful track record and best-in-class production capacity creates a powerful competitive advantage and positions AV as a trusted partner ready to deliver at the pace the mission demands.

I want to thank our employees, shareholders and customers for their continued commitment to AV and our mission. We're honored to support the most critical defense missions at this pivotal moment, and we're ready to seize the tremendous opportunities ahead.

And with that, Kevin, Denise and I will now take your questions.