Broadcom Inc. (AVGO) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 11, 2025 5:00 PM EDT


Company Participants

Ji Yoo - Director of Investor Relations
Hock Tan - President, CEO & Executive Director
Kirsten Spears - CFO & Chief Accounting Officer


Conference Call Participants

Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Vivek Arya - BofA Securities, Research Division
Stacy Rasgon - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Benjamin Reitzes - Melius Research LLC
James Schneider - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Thomas O'Malley - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Karl Ackerman - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division
Christopher Muse - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Joseph Moore - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Joshua Buchalter - TD Cowen, Research Division
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Harsh Kumar - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division


Presentation

Operator

Welcome to Broadcom Inc.'s Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2025 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Ji Yoo, Head of Investor Relations of Broadcom Inc.

Ji Yoo

Thank you, Cherie, and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me on today's call are Hock Tan, President and CEO, Kirsten Spears, Chief Financial Officer, and Charlie Kawwas, President, Semiconductor Solutions Group. Broadcom distributed a press release and financial tables after the market closed, describing our financial performance for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2025. If you did not receive a copy, you may obtain the information from the investor section of Broadcom's website at broadcom.com. This conference call is being webcast live, and an audio replay of the call can be accessed for one year through the investor section of Broadcom's website. During the prepared remarks, Hock and Kirsten will be providing details of our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2025 results, guidance for our first quarter of fiscal year 2026, as well as commentary regarding the business environment. We'll take questions after the end of our prepared comments.

Please refer to our press release today and our recent filings with the SEC for information on the specific risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made on this call. In addition to U.S. GAAP reporting, Broadcom reports certain financial measures on a non-GAAP basis. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in the tables attached to today's press release. Comments made during today's call will primarily refer to our non-GAAP financial results. I'll now turn the call over to Hock.

Hock Tan

Thank you, Ji. And thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We just ended our Q4, fiscal 2025, and before I get into details of that quarter, let me recap the year. In our fiscal 2025, consolidated revenue grew 24% year over year to a record $64 billion, and it's driven by AI semiconductors and VMware. AI revenue grew 65% year over year to $20 billion, driving the semiconductor revenue for this company to a record $37 billion for the year. In our infrastructure software business, strong adoption of VMware Cloud Foundation, or VCF, as we call it, drove revenue growth of 26% year on year to $27 billion. In summary, 2025 was another strong year for Broadcom, and we see the spending momentum by our customers for AI continuing to accelerate in 2026. Now, let's move on to the results of our fourth quarter 2025.

Total revenue was a record $18 billion, up 28% year on year, and above our guidance on better-than-expected growth in AI semiconductors, as well as infrastructure software. Q4 consolidated adjusted EBITDA was a record $12.12 billion, up 34% year on year. So let me give you more color on our two segments. In semiconductors, revenue was $11.1 billion, as year-on-year growth accelerated to 35%. And this robust growth was driven by the AI semiconductor revenue of $6.5 billion, which was up 74% year on year. And this represents a growth trajectory exceeding 10 times over the 11 quarters we have reported this line of business. Our custom-accelerated business more than doubled year over year, as we see our customers increase adoption of XPUs, as we call those custom accelerators, in training their LLMs and monetizing their platforms through inferencing APIs and applications.

These XPUs, I might add, are not only being used to train and inference internal workloads by our customers. The same XPUs, in some situations, have been extended externally to other LLM peers. Best exemplified at Google, where the TPUs used in creating Gemini are also being used for AI cloud computing by Apple, Cohere, and SSI as a sample, and the scale at which we see this happening could be significant, and as you are aware, last quarter, Q3 2025, we received a $10 billion order to sell the latest TPU, Ironwood Rex, to Anthropic, and in this quarter, Q4, we received an additional $11 billion order from this same customer for delivery in late 2026, but that does not mean our other two customers are using TPUs.

In fact, they prefer to control their own destiny by continuing to drive their multi-year journey to create their own custom AI accelerators, or XPU Rex, as we call them. I'm pleased today to report that during this quarter, we acquired a fifth XPU customer through a $1 billion order placed for delivery in late 2026. Now, moving on to AI networking. Demand here has even been stronger as we see customers build out their data center infrastructure ahead of deploying AI accelerators. Our current order backlog for AI switches exceeds $10 billion, as our latest 102 terabit per second Tomahawk 6 switch, the first and only one of its capability out there, continues to book at record rates. This is just a subset of what we have.

We have also secured record orders on DSPs, optical components like lasers, and PCI Express switches to be deployed in AI data centers, and all these components, combined with our XPUs, bring our total order on hand in excess of $73 billion today, which is almost half Broadcom's consolidated backlog of $162 billion. We expect these $73 billion in AI backlog to be delivered over the next 18 months, and in Q1, fiscal 2026, we expect our AI revenue to double year on year to $8.2 billion. Turning to non-AI semiconductors, Q4 revenue of $4.6 billion was up 2% year on year and up 16% sequentially based on favorable wireless seasonality. Year on year, broadband showed solid recovery. Wireless was flat, and all the other end markets were down as enterprise spending continued to show limited signs of recovery.

Accordingly, in Q1, we forecast non-AI semiconductor revenue to be approximately $4.1 billion, flat from a year ago, down sequentially due to wireless seasonality. Let me now talk about our infrastructure software segment. Q4 infrastructure software revenue of $6.9 billion was up 19% year on year, and above our outlook of $6.7 billion. Bookings continued to be strong as total contract value booked in Q4 exceeded $10.4 billion versus $8.2 billion a year ago. We ended the year with $73 billion of infrastructure software backlog, up from $49 billion a year ago. We expect renewals to be seasonal in Q1 and forecast infrastructure software revenue to be approximately $6.8 billion. We still expect, however, that for fiscal 2026, infrastructure software revenue to grow low double-digit percentage. Here's what we see in 2026.

Directionally, we expect AI revenue to continue to accelerate and drive most of our growth, and non-AI semiconductor revenue to be stable. Infrastructure software revenue will continue to be driven by VMware growth at low double digits. And for Q1 2026, we expect consolidated revenue of approximately $19.1 billion, up 28% year on year. And we expect adjusted EBITDA to be approximately 67% of revenue. And with that, let me turn the call over to Kirsten.

Kirsten Spears

Thank you, Hock. Let me now provide additional detail on our Q4 financial performance. Consolidated revenue was a record $18 billion for the quarter, up 28% from a year ago. Gross margin was 77.9% of revenue in the quarter, better than we originally guided on higher software revenues and product mix within semiconductors. Consolidated operating expenses were $2.1 billion, of which $1.5 billion was research and development. Q4 operating income was a record $11.9 billion, up 35% from a year ago. Now, on a sequential basis, even as gross margin was down 50 basis points on semiconductor product mix, operating margin increased 70 basis points sequentially to 66.2% on favorable operating leverage. Adjusted EBITDA of $12.12 billion, or 68% of revenue, was above our guidance of 67%. This figure excludes $148 million of depreciation. Now, a review of the P&L for our two segments, starting with semiconductors.

Revenue for our semiconductor solution segment was a record $11.1 billion, with growth accelerating to 35% year on year, driven by AI. Semiconductor revenue represented 61% of total revenue in the quarter. Gross margin for our semiconductor solution segment was approximately 68%. Operating expenses increased 16% year on year to $1.1 billion on increased investment in R&D for leading-edge AI semiconductors. Semiconductor operating margin of 59% was up 250 basis points year on year. Now, moving to infrastructure software. Revenue for infrastructure software of $6.9 billion was up 19% year on year and represented 39% of total revenue. Gross margin for infrastructure software was 93% in the quarter, compared to 91% a year ago. Operating expenses were $1.1 billion in the quarter, resulting in infrastructure software operating margin of 78%. This compares to operating margin of 72% a year ago, reflecting the completion of the integration of VMware.

Moving on to cash flow. Free cash flow in the quarter was $7.5 billion and represented 41% of revenue. We spent $237 million on capital expenditures. Day sales outstanding were 36 days in the fourth quarter, compared to 29 days a year ago. We ended the fourth quarter with inventory of $2.3 billion, up 4% sequentially. Our days of inventory on hand were 58 days in Q4, compared to 66 days in Q3, as we continue to remain disciplined on how we manage inventory across the ecosystem. We ended the fourth quarter with $16.2 billion of cash, up $5.5 billion sequentially on strong cash flow generation. The weighted average coupon rate in years to maturity of our gross principal fixed rate debt of $67.1 billion is 4% at 7.2 years, respectively. Turning to capital allocation.

In Q4, we paid stockholders $2.8 billion of cash dividends based on a quarterly common stock cash dividend of $0.59 per share. In Q1, we expect the non-GAAP diluted share count to be approximately 4.97 billion shares, excluding the potential impact of any share repurchases. Now, let me recap our financial performance for fiscal year 2025. Our revenue hit a record $63.9 billion, with organic growth accelerating to 24% year on year. Semiconductor revenue was $36.9 billion, up 22% year over year. Infrastructure software revenue was $27 billion, up 26% year on year. Fiscal 2025 adjusted EBITDA was $43 billion and represented 67% of revenue. Free cash flow grew 39% year on year to $26.9 billion. For fiscal 2025, we returned $17.5 billion of cash to shareholders in the form of $11.1 billion of dividends and $6.4 billion in share repurchases and elimination.

Aligned with our ability to generate increased cash flows in the preceding year, we are announcing an increase in our quarterly common stock cash dividend in Q1 fiscal 2026 to $0.65 per share, an increase of 10% from the prior quarter. We intend to maintain this target quarterly dividend throughout fiscal 26, subject to quarterly board approval. This implies our fiscal 2026 annual common stock dividend to be a record $2.60 per share, an increase of 10% year on year. I would like to highlight that this represents the 15th consecutive increase in annual dividends since we initiated dividends in fiscal 2011. The board also approved an extension of our share repurchase program, of which $7.5 billion remains through the end of calendar year 2026. Now, moving to guidance. Our guidance for Q1 is for consolidated revenue of $19.1 billion, up 28% year on year.

We forecast semiconductor revenue of approximately $12.3 billion, up 50% year on year. Within this, we expect Q1 AI semiconductor revenue of $8.2 billion, up approximately 100% year on year. We expect infrastructure software revenue of approximately $6.8 billion, up 2% year on year. For your modeling purposes, we expect Q1 consolidated gross margin to be down approximately 100 basis points sequentially, primarily reflecting a higher mix of AI revenue. As a reminder, consolidated gross margins through the year will be impacted by the revenue mix of infrastructure software and semiconductors, and also product mix within semiconductors. We expect Q1 adjusted EBITDA to be approximately 67%. We expect the non-GAAP tax rate for Q1 and fiscal year 2026 to increase from 14% to approximately 16.5% due to the impact of the global minimum tax and shift in geographic mix of income compared to that of fiscal year 2025.

That concludes my prepared remarks. Operator, please open up the call for questions.

