Axon Enterprise, Inc. (AXON) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Patrick Smith - Founder, CEO & Director
Joshua Isner - President
Brittany Bagley - COO & CFO

Conference Call Participants

George Notter - Wolfe Research, LLC
Jeremy Hamblin - Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, Research Division
Andrew Sherman - TD Cowen, Research Division
James Fish - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Ioannis Samoilis - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Trevor Walsh - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Andrew Spinola - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jordan Lyonnais - BofA Securities, Research Division
Joshua Reilly - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hi, everyone, and thank you for joining Axon's executive team today. We hope you've had a chance to read our shareholder letter released after the market closed, which you can find at investor.axon.com. Our remarks today are meant to build upon that letter. During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These comments are based on our expectations as of today and are not guarantees of future performance. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially as discussed in our SEC filings. We'll also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to non-GAAP are included in our shareholder letter and available on our Investor Relations website. With that, before I turn it over to Rick, we have a quick video to show you. It shows a little bit about our vision for Axon 911. Let's pull it up.

[Presentation]

Patrick Smith
Founder, CEO & Director

Thanks, Erik, and great job to our team who put that video together to help share some of the narrative of where we're going next as we extend the Axon ecosystem. So I'd like to welcome everybody to our Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. It's truly just an amazing time to be at Axon. Just a few weeks ago, we were at the major annual conferences across public safety, federal and military and enterprise, meeting with hundreds of customers to catch up on their top priorities and share our vision, which you just saw a glimpse of a piece of it in that video. Like me, our team walked away energized. We're incredibly excited about what we're building. The future we envision is coming together, and it's even more inspirational than I could have imagined a decade ago. At the heart of that future is the expansion of our ecosystem.

Our latest update outlines our path toward delivering Axon 911, which will be built on the foundations of Prepared and Carbyne, a major leap toward unifying the technology needed to deliver measurably better outcomes for communities and our customers. Prepared and Carbyne are powerfully complementary. Prepared is a low-friction AI capability that can be rapidly installed in any communication center, immediately giving call takers superpowers to speed through data collection, analysis and sharing. It can autonomously handle up to half of noncritical calls, freeing the human operators for true emergencies. On critical calls, Prepared serves as an intelligent assistant, taking on data collection so operators can focus on the human side of helping people in crisis. Just last week, we heard a story about a 911 call center for one of the largest U.S. cities who installed Prepared ahead of the 4th of July.

They completed implementation in about a month, which is incredibly fast. It's lightning fast for public safety. And in the first few days, they saw a 33% reduction in calls requiring a human operator even as the overall inbound volume was up significantly due to the holiday weekend. That's real immediate impact. And Carbyne replaces on-prem call center infrastructure with highly resilient cloud infrastructure, eliminating the enormous costs of running legacy equipment and allowing agencies to move at the exponential pace of modern technology rather than at the glacial pace of procurement. We see Carbyne repeating in voice communications, the success we had with evidence.com in moving agency data centers to the cloud. Now we'll do it with their call centers. Together, these capabilities let agencies make their existing systems smarter today and provide a smooth orderly path to full modernization over time.

Both leverage AI natively to rethink what's possible. Let me bring this to life. Imagine you need help. You dial 911. Today, the operator listens, gathers information and frenetically types it into a command line system. That information is then passed via a typed message over to a dispatcher who's a different person who reads that information and then relays it over the radio to police officers. It's an inherently inefficient system of the old telephone game, prone to risks of miscommunication. We can turn that process, and we are now turning it on its head. When you make that call, a network of connected devices and software across your city will activate instantly, analyzing information, prompting decisions and allowing the human operator to coordinate a faster, more informed response. Call handlers will focus on helping you instead of typing feverishly, while real-time prompts will enable the dispatch of human or drone responders.

And that suspicious reported person, we can handle that call autonomously. No need for a human operator. When there is an emergency, critical context will flow directly to those on scene through their body cameras, keeping them more informed, less distractive and better supported by a network built to keep people safe. It's a powerful future that's coming into view. Now to clarify how this fits into our overall approach, as you will recall, we exited our computer-aided dispatch product line about a year ago. This new approach lets us innovate in critical response workflows without rebuilding legacy systems. It means we can innovate faster, driving real-world impact and value creation.

And we will enable reciprocal data sharing and APIs to drive true interoperability, giving agencies the flexibility to modernize at their own pace. This isn't just a cloud migration. It's a connected platform that upgrades existing systems and makes them better, no replacement required. Customers get immediate capability upgrades while having the option to migrate older infrastructure to hyperscaler efficiency on their own time line. It also unlocks new potential across our real-time operations, vehicle intelligence and drone and robotics platforms, creating an integrated ecosystem that delivers on the future we've long envisioned with Fusus serving as the real-time sensor network backbone, while Prepared and Carbyne provide the voice layer connecting every persona from the caller to the responder moving toward creating an AI superpowered team. Voice communications, if we think back, this began with operators 100 years ago physically connecting phone lines, then it moved through rotary dials and keypads.

The next era is intelligent AI-enabled communications that process information at super human speed and surface the right insights to each human decision-maker when they need it. Prepared and Carbyne aren't the end state. They are the foundation for the transformation in voice communications ahead. People often ask where Axon's limits are. I believe we're only scratching the surface. We're advancing our ecosystem while expanding our reach to more new customers. In addition to better serving emergency call centers, we recently introduced ABW Mini, our second enterprise body camera, opening enterprise opportunities similar to public safety, and we're finding new inroads globally. As I think about the next few decades and what we're building, I truly believe that the best is indeed yet to come. What an amazing time to be alive and what a privilege to be at Axon during this accelerating transformation. And with that, I'll turn it over to Josh.

Joshua Isner
President

Thanks a lot, Rick, and good afternoon, everyone. Before we get into our results, I want to echo Rick's comments as we welcome the Prepared team and soon the Carbyne team to Axon. I believe our greatest asset is our team. Nothing excites me more than bringing on exceptional people who will help accelerate our mission and ignite our future. Our growth can only accelerate via elite talent, and our team is now stronger than ever with the additions of Michael, Dylan, Neil and the rest of the Prepared team and Amir, Alex and the rest of the Carbyne team. As I reflect on our Q3 results and look ahead to Q4, I'm excited and grateful.

We are building an elite business that is still nowhere near its ultimate potential, and we are doing it with a team that is rapidly bought into the mission. A lot of people around here bust their tails every day, and I am thankful for the intensity they bring to work and the bar they set. What we're seeing right now isn't just incredible execution. It's a signal. The theme that comes to mind is be obsessed. Our value focusing on relentless focus on our customers, an attitude we drive home every day at Axon because we know their success is what fuels ours. Let me share a few data points that show how we're hitting the mark. First, our state and local customers continue to rely on us for more and more products. Rick talked about expanding our ecosystem. And for me, the most important indicator that we're doing it right is simple. It's evidence that we're helping customers where they need it most. We hear that in conversations every day, but we are seeing that in the data.

One clear example is that more and more of our deals now include the full breadth of our portfolio. I say it often, we have the best sales team in the world. But when you can sell everything to a customer, that's more than just sales execution. It's the trust you've built, it's the product market fit and it's a sign you're making an impact. I mentioned that last quarter that a few of our deals were approaching the $600 per user per month level, several multiples above our current average. In Q3, we broke that threshold with 2 of our top 10 deals in our state and local base, each representing major upgrades with Axon. These long-term partnerships across so many different product lines speak to our customers' confidence in a future with us.

Across products, the story is the same. The AI Era Plan continues to be the fastest booked Axon software product to date. We're on pace for AI bookings to contribute over 10% of U.S. state and local bookings for next year -- or sorry, for this year. When you expand that to our newer offerings, Axon Air, Dedrone and Fusus, bookings are up more than 3x year-to-date. The momentum highlights another key part of our growth strategy, how we pour fuel on the fire when we acquire great businesses. Across the board, our acquisitions over the past year have outperformed initial bookings expectations, which are showing up in adoption of these new products. Next, let's talk about expansion beyond our core state and local base into corrections, justice, international and enterprise. A standout this year continues to be corrections, which contributed 2 of our top 10 deals in Q3 with year-to-date bookings up more than 2x from last year.

International also delivered 2 of our top 10 deals overall with an additional 9-figure cloud deal in Europe that closed in October. We're finally seeing a shift in some countries driven by the value that cloud products bring, and we think this will be the start of larger and larger deals in our International segment to come. Growing adoption of TASER 10 in international markets is another part of the story, and 7 of our top 10 Q3 international deals were driven by TASER 10. Looking ahead, we're executing against a growing pipeline, and we're not slowing down. Year-to-date bookings are up in excess of 30% and accelerating from last year, and we have line of sight to close out the year even stronger, but we are still in the early innings.

We see the healthiest and best indicators across our business we have ever had, and I'm confident we are on the right track as we scale up the investment in our products and sales team to go after the entirety of what's in front of us. I have no doubt we will deliver another record year in 2026, something that I'm sure many of you are wondering about. And I think our opportunity has the potential to accelerate much further. Going into next year, look for us to continue to drive record growth, ensuring better execution through the use of AI tools and efficient decentralized ownership to tackle new markets and opportunities. Elite scrappy team doing more and more in parallel will be our competitive advantage for years to come. That's what our next play looks like. With that, over to you, Brittany.

Brittany Bagley
COO & CFO

Thank you, Josh. As Rick and Josh highlighted, we're excited to welcome Prepared and announce Carbyne, which we expect to close in early 2026. We're proud of our third quarter results, which again reflect strong execution across our products and markets. Third quarter revenue of $711 million increased 31% year-over-year, marking our seventh consecutive quarter of 30% or greater growth, underscoring the robust demand we are seeing. Software and services was again the leader, increasing 41% year-over-year to $305 million of revenue. This growth reflects both new customers and existing customers expanding their use of our platform and capabilities.

We continue to have strong net revenue retention at 124% again this quarter, and ARR grew 41% to $1.3 billion. Connected Devices revenue grew 24% year-over-year to $405 million, reflecting broad-based demand. TASER grew 17%, led by TASER 10. Personal Sensors grew 20%, driven by Axon Body 4 and Platform Solutions grew 71%, driven by counter drone, virtual reality and fleet. Adjusted gross margin of 62.7% decreased 50 basis points year-over-year, primarily due to tariffs impacting us for the first full quarter. We also continued scaling Platform Solutions, which overall has lower margins than TASER and personal sensors, but offset by continued strong growth in our higher-margin software business.

Adjusted EBITDA margin of 24.9% reflected the impact from tariffs and the planned increased R&D investments. These investments are into categories that will support future growth, including our vehicle intelligence ALPR products, Axon Body Workforce Mini and new AI Era Plan features such as live translation and policy chat. We couldn't be more excited about these products and the traction they are already seeing from our customers, and we will deliver a strong ROI on these organic investments over the long term. We've also accelerated strategic investments with recent acquisitions.

Newer product lines such as Fusus and Dedrone are scaling quickly, and we continue to invest in their growth, along now with Prepared and Carbyne as another exciting new category. While these acquisitions are immaterial from a financial perspective at close, we see tremendous value in how these investments advance our long-term vision and solve challenges for our customers. They have strong teams in emerging categories and complement the capabilities we are already investing in. Turning to our outlook. We're again raising revenue guidance for the remainder of the year. We expect Q4 revenue between $750 million and $755 million, implying full year revenue of about $2.74 billion, up from $2.65 billion to $2.73 billion and representing approximately 31% growth at the midpoint.

For adjusted EBITDA, we expect Q4 between $178 million and $182 million, which maintains our full year 25% margin target. We are pleased to deliver on our commitment for a 25% adjusted EBITDA margin for the year, even with the impact from tariffs and our increased R&D investments. We think the combination of top line growth and bottom line profitability is the right balance for the business, delivering at 55-plus versus the Rule of 40. We're incredibly excited by the opportunities in front of us. The investments we highlighted are key components of continuing to deliver great performance in the years ahead.

In summary, we are proud of our results and our team and thankful for our terrific customers. We're well positioned for the future and look forward to continued strong performance. With that, we'll open the line for questions.