Azenta, Inc. (AZTA) Q4 2025 Earnings Call November 21, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Yvonne Perron - Vice President of Financial Planning & Analysis and Investor Relations
John P. Marotta - President, CEO & Director
Lawrence Lin - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

David Saxon - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Steven Etoch - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Andrew Cooper - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Vijay Kumar - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Jacqueline Kisa - TD Cowen, Research Division
Paul Knight - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Azenta Q4 2025 Financial Results. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Friday, November 21, 2025.

I will now turn the conference over to Yvonne Perron, Vice President, FP&A and Investor Relations.

Yvonne Perron
Vice President of Financial Planning & Analysis and Investor Relations

Thank you, operator, and good morning to everyone on the line today. We would like to welcome you to our earnings conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025. Our fourth quarter earnings press release was issued before the open of the market today, and is available on our Investor Relations website located at investors.azenta.com in addition to the supplementary PowerPoint slides that will be used during the prepared remarks today. Please note that effective the first fiscal quarter of 2025, the results of B Medical Systems are treated as discontinued operations.

I would like to remind everyone that during the course of the call, we will be making a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Securities Act of 1995. There are many factors that may cause actual financial results or other events to differ from those identified in such forward-looking statements. I would refer you to the section of our earnings release titled Safe Harbor Statement, the safe harbor slide on the aforementioned PowerPoint presentation on our website, and our various filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. We make no obligation to update these statements should future financial data or events occur that differ from the forward-looking statements presented today.

We may refer to a number of non-GAAP financial measures, which are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe the non-GAAP measures provide an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations and performance, but when considered with GAAP financial results and the reconciliation of the GAAP measures, they provide an even more complete understanding of the Azenta business. Non-GAAP measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of the GAAP measures themselves.

On the call with me today is our President and Chief Executive Officer, John Marotta, and our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Lawrence Lin. We will open the call with remarks from John, then Lawrence will provide a detailed look into our financial results and our outlook for fiscal year 2026. We will then take your questions at the end of their prepared remarks.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to our CEO, John Marotta.

John P. Marotta
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Yvonne. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. As we reflect on fiscal 2025, I want to begin by recognizing our Azenta employees around the world. Their dedication, resilience and unwavering focus on our customers and our purpose, enabling breakthroughs faster have been the driving force behind our successes to date.

At the start of the year, we set out to refocus the organization, put the customer at the core of everything we do, to simplify how we operate, to improve execution, and to build a company positioned for durable, profitable growth and long-term value creation. We've made considerable progress, but we have also recognized we have more to do, which excites us about the road ahead.

The opportunities in front of us are significant. We're energized by the potential to deepen our impact, sharpen our execution and continue delivering for our customers, our employees and our shareholders. We've created a simpler, more accountable organization through the implementation of the Azenta Business System, ABS, which is the framework for how we operate. It brings together lean principles, daily management routines and structured problem solving. This year, we trained teams and conducted Kaizens in manufacturing, commercial and support functions, and delivered measurable improvements in quality, on-time delivery and overall productivity.

These results are just the start. What's most meaningful is the cultural shift and momentum. Operational excellence is no longer just a goal. It's embedded in how our teams work every day. Employees are identifying inefficiencies and driving change from the ground up. We have simplified our structure. We have moved from a complex centralized model to one that empowers our operating companies with clear accountability and a greater agility. Decision-making is now faster, closer to the customer and grounded in data and outcomes. We've reinvested savings in line with our growth priorities, innovation, sales, marketing and product management. These changes are making Azenta a more growth focused and efficient company.

The strength of our balance sheet with over $0.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities gives us the financial flexibility to invest with discipline across 4 strategic levers driving productivity, accelerating organic growth, returning capital to shareholders through share repurchases, and pursuing targeted tuck-in M&A. We will have clear accountability for outcomes, reinforcing our commitment to value creation and operational excellence.

We remain well positioned to invest for our future while delivering sustainable returns and creating long-term value. In fiscal 2025, we achieved 3% core growth and delivered meaningful margin expansion of 310 basis points. Beyond our financial results, we took decisive steps to reshape our commercial organization, with the right leadership in place and expanded field presence, and a sharpened go-to-market targeting. We're well positioned to serve our customers and accelerate our growth trajectory. It's important to recognize that all of this took place amid a volatile and uncertain macro backdrop, characterized by softer academic and NIH funding, shifting biopharma priorities and ongoing geopolitical uncertainty.

Yet through these challenges, Azenta demonstrated its resilience. Our differentiated portfolio delivers critical solutions that uniquely support our customers, ranging from sample management of irreplaceable assets to automated product workflows, warehouse and inventory optimization, and comprehensive testing of samples and data that underpin life sciences research and production. We're confident not only in our ability to navigate volatility, but to capitalize on it. This environment has also created opportunities as customers look to do more with less, they are consolidating partners, outsourcing noncore operations, and investing in automation and digital workflows. All areas where Azenta is positioned to lead.

We're seeing new partnership discussions emerge precisely because of our reputation for expertise, quality, reliability and execution. Our customers are looking for partners they can trust and Azenta is that partner. As we look ahead to fiscal 2026, we are entering the year from a position of strength. Although macroeconomic uncertainty continues to persist, we have reshaped the organization, instilled a culture of accountability, and continuous improvement, and set a strong operational foundation. Our priorities are clear. Continue to deliver core growth and margin expansion, embed the Azenta business system deeper across the organization to further improve our operational discipline and productivity, and to deploy capital optimally in a disciplined approach.

We anticipate core revenue growth between 3% to 5%, and expected adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 300 basis points, and higher free cash flow generation as we scale our operational improvements. With a leaner structure, growth initiatives, enhanced ABS discipline, and a strong balance sheet, we believe we're positioned to outperform the market. Next month, we will host our Investor Day where we will outline the next phase of the Azenta journey, including our multiyear growth strategy, long-term financial framework and capital deployment priorities. We look forward to sharing how our strategy positions us for profitable growth and value creation. We are a stronger company today operationally, culturally and strategically. And we are confident in the path ahead.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Lawrence for a detailed review of our financial results.

Lawrence Lin
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, John, and good morning, everybody. I'll start by sharing with you our fourth quarter and full year fiscal 2025 results, then discuss our segments, provide an update on our balance sheet, and then close with guidance for fiscal 2026. But first, I want to take a moment to echo John's comments.

Fiscal 2025 was truly a pivotal year for Azenta. As we close the year, we're encouraged by the internal business momentum and excited to carry that progress forward into fiscal 2026. The results we are discussing today exclude B Medical Systems, which is reported in discontinued operations unless otherwise noted. In the fourth quarter, we recorded an additional noncash loss on assets held for sale of $4 million on B Medical. We believe the transaction remains on track to be announced in calendar 2025.

To supplement my remarks today, I will refer to the slide deck available on our website. We'll begin on Slide 4 with a few highlights. Fourth quarter revenue was $159 million, up 6% year-over-year on a reported basis, and up 4% organically with Multiomics delivering a record quarter. Fiscal year 2025 revenue was $594 million, which was up 4% on a reported basis, and up 3% organic, despite a macro environment that became more challenging as the year progresses. Strong performance in Next Generation Sequencing, Clinical Biostores, Sample Repository Solutions, and Consumables and Instruments contributed meaningfully to these results.

Non-GAAP EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.21, and was $0.51 for the full year. I'm pleased to report an adjusted EBITDA margin of 13% in the fourth quarter, and 11.2% for the full year, representing expansion of approximately 230 basis points in Q4, and 310 basis points for the full year. These results reflect the continued benefits of our operational turnaround and disciplined cost execution, delivered in the face of a challenging macro environment. We believe we have meaningfully more margin expansion potential and are confident we can achieve it while also accelerating our top line growth.

Free cash flow, including B Medical, was a usage of $6 million for the quarter, driven by the timing of revenue and project-related milestone billing. For the full year, free cash flow was $38 million, a notable improvement of $26 million year-over-year, driven by improvements in working capital. Excluding B Medical, we ended the year in a strong financial position with $546 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, providing us with the flexibility to invest in growth initiatives and return value to shareholders over time. We closed fiscal 2025 with a healthier, more efficient business, sustained operational momentum and the financial strength to invest in our growth priorities.

Now let's turn to Slide 5 to take a deeper look at our results in the quarter. Total revenue of $159 million represented a 6% growth on a reported basis, and 4% on an organic basis. As I already mentioned, Multiomics delivered a record quarter. Solid contributions from Next Generation Sequencing, Automated Stores and Sample Storage were the primary driver of growth that helped offset softness in other areas of the portfolio.

In the fourth quarter, non-GAAP gross margin was 46.7%, down 20 basis points year-over-year. The modest decline was driven by performance in Multiomics, partially offset by favorable product mix, gains from operational efficiencies and improved cost execution, mainly in Sample Management Solutions. Overall, the net impact was limited, demonstrating the resilience of our business amid a challenging macro environment.

Adjusted EBITDA was $21 million, representing 13% margin, expanding both year-over-year and sequentially. This improvement reflects the leverage from our cost actions and our disciplined focus on operational performance. Again, non-GAAP EPS was $0.21 per share. Overall, these results underscore consistent progress towards our profitability objectives, driven by improved efficiency, disciplined cost management and stronger execution.

With that, let's turn to Slide 6 for a review of our segment quarterly results, starting with Sample Management Solutions, or SMS. SMS revenue was $86 million for the quarter, up 2% reported and flat organically. The performance reflects softness in Cryogenic Stores, driven by slower bookings due to ongoing customer budget constraints and a tough compare to last year's record quarter. Consumables and Instruments performed well both year-over-year and quarter-to-quarter. While both Automated Stores and Sample Storage grew, customers continue to delay CapEx decisions due to macroeconomic uncertainty. SMS fourth quarter non-GAAP gross margin was 49.3%, up 180 basis points year-over-year, as a result of a favorable shift in product mix and improved operational execution and cost management.

Turning next to the Multiomics segment. Multiomics delivered record revenue of $73 million in the quarter, the highest ever for the segment, representing 11% growth on a reported basis and 10% organic growth. Continued strength in Next Generation Sequencing was the primary driver with sequencing volume rising 50% year-over-year. We saw a strong performance across all geographies, aided by large deals in Europe that contributed to the record quarterly revenue.

Despite macro and geopolitical headwinds, our team continues to outperform in China, posting 17% organic growth for the quarter. Encouragingly, Gene Synthesis revenue grew low single digits year-over-year, achieving the highest quarterly revenue in 2025, driven by strong demand in China and continued wins in oligo production. We continue to actively monitor the macro environment where customers are reprioritizing projects and remapping pipelines.

Sanger Sequencing revenue declined low double digit year-over-year, consistent with trends we've discussed in prior quarters, though the pace of decline moderated in the quarter. Revenue growth in Plasmid-EZ, our Oxford Nanopore-based solution, remains strong and continues to largely offset the decline in traditional Sanger revenue. Multiomics non-GAAP gross margin for the fourth quarter was 43.7%, down 260 basis points year-over-year. The decline was primarily driven by product mix and lower volume in Sanger Sequencing and Gene Synthesis.

Now let's turn to Slide 7 for a review of the balance sheet. We ended the year with $546 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, excluding B Medical. We had no debt outstanding. This strong liquidity position provides us with the strategic flexibility to invest in growth initiatives, support operational needs, and maintain a disciplined capital allocation framework. Capital expenditures for the quarter were approximately $8 million, reflecting continued investment in automation, capacity expansion and technology to support scalable growth.

Turning to guidance on Slide 9. For fiscal 2026, we anticipate organic revenue growth in the range of 3% to 5%. Multiomics is expected to deliver low single-digit growth, while Sample Management Solutions is expected to contribute mid-single-digit growth. Our guidance reflects continued uncertainty in the macro environment, particularly around capital spending, as well as moderated growth in Next Generation Sequencing as volumes normalize. Based on these factors, we expect a slower start in the first half of the year and anticipate first quarter revenue to decline approximately 1% to 2% year-over-year. We expect the second half of the year to accelerate as our commercial investments and growth initiatives game traction giving us confidence in our full year guide.

On the profitability front, we are targeting approximately 300 basis points of year-over-year adjusted EBITDA margin expansion, driven by continued operational efficiencies, disciplined cost management and scalable operating leverage. We expect to improve free cash flow generation by over 30% year-over-year. We look forward to sharing more information about our growth priorities and longer-term financial and capital allocation framework at our Investor Day in December. We will outline how these strategic initiatives position Azenta for sustainable, profitable growth and most importantly, value creation.

In closing, we are pleased with our performance in fiscal 2025. we reshaped the company structure, strengthened our operational foundation and generated strong financial results, despite a challenging macro environment. The progress we've made positions us well for fiscal 2026.

This concludes our prepared remarks, and I will now turn the call over to the operator for questions.