Question-and-Answer Session

Lydia Liu: Thank you, Toby. Hi, everyone. You're welcome to ask questions in Chinese or
English. A third-party translator will provide consecutive interpretation for the Q&A session.
The translation is for convenience purposes only. In the case of any discrepancy, our
management statement in the original language will prevail. If you are unable to hear the
Chinese translation, bilingual transcripts of this call will be available on our website within one
week after the end of the meeting.[Foreign language]. Operator, please go ahead with Q&A
session. Thank you.
Operator: Thank you. If you do wish to ask a question, please press star then one on your
telephone and wait for your name to be announced. If you wish to cancel your request, please
press star two. If you are on a speakerphone, please pick up your handset to ask your question.
To give more people the opportunity to ask questions today, please keep yourself to no more
than one question at a time. Thank you. Your first question today comes from Gary Yu at
Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Gary Yu: Hi, thank you for the opportunity and congratulations on a strong set of results. My
question is related to cloud business. How should we look at the growth outlook going
forward? Should we continue to expect growth to accelerate? On the demand side, given we
don't have a big AI company like in the U.S., how should we look at the key driver driving the
external revenue growth going forward? Thank you.
Eddie Wu: [Foreign language]
Eddie Wu: Thank you for those questions. Let me start with the first one. Certainly, we see that
customer demand for AI is and remains very strong. In fact, we're not even able to keep pace
with the growth in customer demand as in orders in terms of the pace at which we can deploy
new servers. We certainly do see that demand for AI is accelerating. In terms of where that
demand is coming from, it's really coming from all aspects of enterprise operations as AI
adoption continues to not only accelerate but deepen with applications across product
development, throughout manufacturing processes, and also in terms of supporting the
enterprises and customers use their products. In all of those places, AI adoption continues to
deepen. Of course, all of this activity around model training and inference requires the use of
compute as well.
Eddie Wu: Essentially, we're talking about huge potential and continually growing demand
among real customers engaged in real-world use cases. Therefore, our conviction in future AI
demand growth is strong.
Lydia Liu: Next question, please.
Operator: Thank you. Your next question comes from Kenneth Fong at UBS. Please go ahead.
Kenneth Fong: Hi, good evening, management, and thanks for taking my questions. Congrats
on the strong performance in our quick commerce initiative. Can management share some key
progress for quick commerce and synergy to our core e-commerce so far? Given the synergy,
what's the outlook for December quarter CMR and EBITDA for our core e-commerce? Thank
you.
Jiang Fan: [Foreign language]
Eddie Wu: [Foreign language]
Eddie Wu: Thank you for your question. Over the past few months, we've focused on
optimizing our unit economics in quick commerce while maintaining our market share. We
believe we've made significant progress on this front. The order mix has improved, and the
economies of scale from growing order volume have driven clear reductions in logistics costs.
Since November, the per order UE loss for quick commerce has been cut by 50% compared to
July-August. On this basis, quick commerce has maintained stable order share with GMV share
holding steady and trending upward. We're also seeing meaningful uplift in related physical
e-commerce categories. Let me expand a bit further on those points. First, in terms of order
mix optimization, over the past two months, the share of higher average order value, higher
AOV orders has increased.
Eddie Wu: According to the latest data, non-beverage orders now account for over 75% of total
orders. Most recently, AOV for quick commerce has grown by double-digits compared to
August, which has contributed to an increase in quick commerce's overall GMV share. On the
second point about logistics, as the order volume scales, quick commerce is realizing very
clear economies of scale in fulfillment logistics. Delivery speed is now faster than the same
period last year, while average logistics cost per order has declined significantly. In fact, the
average cost per order is now lower than it was before we started making large-scale
investments in quick commerce. These two factors together have enabled us to achieve our
near-term target, namely cutting by half the per order loss versus July-August. Importantly,
during this phase of narrowing UE losses, both user retention and purchase frequency have
outperformed expectations.
Eddie Wu: [Foreign language]
Eddie Wu: Beyond food delivery, we're also seeing rapid growth in retail categories via quick
commerce, clearly driving growth across related categories and businesses, especially
groceries, healthcare products, and supermarket segments within physical e-commerce. For
example, Freshippo and Tmall supermarket quick commerce orders are up 30% from August.
Over recent months, we've also actively onboarded merchants and brands onto Taobao Instant
Commerce, and we will further accelerate integration and synergy between key retail categories
and the quick commerce model going forward. In summary, we firmly believe that the quick
commerce model holds immense potential for synergy with the broader Alibaba ecosystem. In
phase one, we successfully achieved rapid scale expansion. In phase two, UE optimization is
progressing in line with our expectations, laying a solid foundation for the long-term
sustainability of the quick commerce business and reinforcing our confidence in sustained
long-term investment in quick commerce.
Eddie Wu: In the next phase, we will continue to refine the user experience through operational
upgrading with a focus on serving high-value users and a focus on expanding retail categories.
Quick commerce is a core strategic pillar in the Taobao Tmall group's platform upgrade. Our
goal is to generate CNY 1 trillion in GMV for the platform within three years, thereby driving
market share gains across the related categories.
Toby Xu: [Foreign language]
Toby Xu: Thanks. This is Toby. Let me take the second part of your question about CMR and
EBITDA. As Jiang Fan just shared with you, quick commerce is having a very significant effect
in terms of enhancing user engagement as well as driving transactions in relevant categories.
That, of course, has a positive impact on CMR. The main thing that we need to do in this next
phase is to better integrate and achieve synergies across conventional e-commerce and quick
commerce so as to more fully realize that impact. However, we are in an investment phase right
now, so this is relevant to EBITDA. I think likely the September quarter will be the quarter
during which the scale of those investments are the highest.
Toby Xu: As efficiency improves and UE improves and as the scale of this business stabilizes,
we can expect to see, I think, by next quarter, a significant sizing down in the scale of those
investments. Of course, having said that, we will dynamically adjust the pace and size of our
investments in line with market competition.
Toby Xu: [Foreign language]
Toby Xu: When it comes to CMR and the e-commerce business, there will be an impact from the
base effect in respect of the payment processing fee as well as the rollout of QZT. We started
charging the payment processing fee in September of last year. Starting from next quarter, we
could expect to see a slowdown in growth due to that base effect. As we've consistently
emphasized, our primary and foremost objective is to secure market share for the medium and
long term. During this process, we will continue to decisively invest in consumers and in
merchants, and we will resolutely move ahead with business model upgrading of our
e-commerce platform. During that process, you can therefore expect that there will be
short-term fluctuations in CMR and in EBITDA.
Lydia Liu: Peter, let's take the next question.
Operator: Thank you. Your next question comes from Alex Yao at JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
Alex Yao: [Foreign language]
Alex Yao: Thank you very much for the opportunity. As Jiang Fan just said, we've now
completed the first phase of these investments. We're now in the second phase where we are
enhancing efficiency. My question is, as the efficiency is optimized and we obtain cost savings,
what are we going to do with those cost savings? How will the benefits of those cost savings
be allocated or distributed across the value chain among the different key stakeholders?
Assume, for example, that we're going to continue to maintain the same level of intensity with
respect to subsidies to consumers and this ongoing incremental improvement in the financial
performance of the business, what will that mean in terms of subsidies for merchants? The
cost savings will need to be allocated or distributed somehow across the three key
stakeholders: consumer, merchant, and platform.
Alex Yao: If we do not decrease those subsidies to consumers and we continue to follow the
same path that we are on now and rely on optimization of user mix as well as driving increase
in order share and driving higher basket sizes, then what does that mean for UE and how much
scope is there going forward for UE growth?
Jiang Fan: [Foreign language]
Jiang Fan: Yes, this is Jiang Fan. Let me take this question, and it's actually related to, in part,
some of the things that I was sharing with you a bit earlier. What we've been doing in this
period of time is enhancing the user experience and at the same time increasing the average
order value. That means that the revenues attributable to each order will increase because our
revenues are proportionate to average order value. I also spoke earlier about how we've
optimized logistics, fulfillment logistics efficiency, and will continue to drive improvement there
with scale. I think going forward, there is still considerable scope there on the one hand in
respect of consumers because over the past few months, it's really been primarily new
consumers in this business.
Jiang Fan: What we're doing is converting those users into users with a higher level of
stickiness across the platform as a whole. Through that process, we'll continue to increase
average order size, average order value, and to modify the ways in which we provide subsidies.
Also, if you look at traffic on the Taobao app over the past few months, including on the quick
commerce channel, which has rapidly increased to the point where it now has over 100 million
daily users on the channel, I think it speaks to the fact that there's considerable potential for
monetization, further monetization. I think that that's an opportunity also to improve UE in the
future. Now, having said that, again, the market is a highly competitive market, so we will be
looking at those opportunities but adjusting our approach dynamically in line with market
dynamics.
Lydia Liu: Thank you. Peter, let's move on to the next question.
Operator: Thank you. Your next question comes from Ronald Keung at Goldman Sachs. Please
go ahead.
Ronald Keung: [Foreign language]
Ronald Keung: Thank you. I'd like to ask about CapEx over the next three years, and I'm
wondering what your thinking is, as you sit here today, regarding the RMB 380 billion figure
that you previously mentioned. In particular, because over the past four quarters, I believe RMB
120 billion has already been spent. How should we be thinking about CapEx going forward and
the incremental revenue being driven by that CapEx? How do we evaluate the correlation
between CapEx and the expected incremental revenue? Thank you.
Eddie Wu: [Foreign language]
Eddie Wu: Thank you for your question. The RMB 380 billion CapEx figure that we had
previously mentioned was a planned figure for a three-year period. Based on what we're seeing
now, and as I just mentioned, the pace at which we can add new servers is insufficient to keep
up with the growth in customer orders. Looking at the CapEx situation from where we're at
today, and of course there are also supply chain issues to consider as well, the pace at which
we can build out IDCs and launch new servers is also part of that consideration. Essentially
we're working as fast as we can to be able to satisfy all of that customer demand.
Eddie Wu: In that context, if we're not able to satisfy all of that customer demand especially well
with the current pace of investment, then we wouldn't rule out further scaling up that CapEx
investment. That is somewhat dependent on supply chains and availability. In overall terms,
certainly we will be investing in AI infrastructure aggressively in order to meet the demand of
customers. In big picture terms, I would say that the RMB 380 billion figure we had mentioned
previously might be on the small side, certainly in terms of the customer demand that we're
currently seeing.
Eddie Wu: [Foreign language]
Eddie Wu: Okay, thank you. The second part of the question had to do with the incremental
revenue being driven by these capital expenditures. If there's some kind of ratio that we can
calculate between X amount of CapEx investment and X amount of incremental revenue, I don't
think it's really possible to make that kind of estimate, at least for the time being, because
overall the AI sector is still in the early phases of its development. If you look at the different
ways that our AI infrastructure is currently being used, that's in flux and spans several different
areas. For example, we have servers that are directly rented to customers for training. We have
servers that are directly rented to customers for inference.
Eddie Wu: We're also, of course, using servers ourselves for Bai Lian for inference, as well as
for internal applications within the Alibaba Group, like AMAP, like Taobao, like Qwen and Quirk,
and transforming these applications into member services or membership-based products for
our users. Overall, our AI product and AI infrastructure are being used in all these different
ways, different kinds of applications, resulting in different revenues and different gross margin
levels. I think in terms of that kind of ratio you were asking about, whatever it is, it certainly
wouldn't be stable at this point. I think in the long term, though, what we care about more is
that our infrastructure is serving high-quality tokens and providing good cost-effectiveness for
those tokens.
Lydia Liu: Next question, please.
Operator: Thank you. Your next question comes from Elijah McCorry. Please go ahead.
Operator: [Foreign language]
Operator: Yeah, thank you, management, for taking my question. This is more of a follow-up
question. The company is a full-stack AI service provider, and obviously it's currently in an
important investment cycle. We can see that the investments you're making cover a number of
different segments in the value chain. Considering the instability in the supply chains that are
ongoing at present, I'm wondering how you consider the allocation of our resources. Because
you have the model as a service, the MAS layer, we also continue to build out underlying
capabilities, fundamental capabilities. On the user-facing side, we have apps, including Qwen
and AMAP, products like that, that we're iterating rapidly and scaling up to users.
Operator: I'm just wondering, in the present macro environment, how should we think about,
how should we evaluate the return on invested capital ROIC in respect of AI, including both
training and inference?
Eddie Wu: [Foreign language]
Eddie Wu: Thank you. Let me take that question. Indeed, as a full-stack AI service provider, we
are currently in a very important investment cycle for AI and investing in our products as well
as in our infrastructure. There are several different places where we're investing, and we do
have some internal thinking about how we prioritize them, and I can share, I think, some of
those considerations with you. First of all, I would say the most critical of those priorities, the
first thing that we need to ensure is that we are able to continually train our own foundation
models. Because in the AI space overall, the ability of our AI infrastructure to be able to acquire
more customers or to be able to acquire more high-value use cases relies on our ability to
continually iterate and upgrade our foundation models.
Eddie Wu: We need to be doing that in order to be able to unlock new demand and to acquire
new customers by unlocking new use cases. After that, after unlocking new higher-value use
cases, the next thing is to look at the amount of token consumption as well as the token quality,
as well as the willingness of customers to pay for those tokens. That willingness is going to
continue to strengthen gradually. I would say that is one of the highest priorities when it comes
to allocating those investments. Another priority is around inference, and I'm thinking primarily
of inference as a service on Bai Lian. That is also a relatively high-priority area for us because
we've created the Bai Lian platform in order to be able to serve customers all around the world.
Eddie Wu: We want to ensure that those AI resources are available 24 hours a day and are
being utilized 24/7 with high efficiency. The key there is to ensure that one AI server can run at
full capacity 24 hours around the clock and thereby to generate more tokens. Bai Lian is a very
critical resource pool for us, and it's a relatively high priority. Separately, of course, we have
internal use cases for AI inferencing. Indeed, we also have external customers who are
leveraging our inferencing services to meet their demand. That's also part of the picture. When
it comes to these external customers, we also have some criteria for prioritizing different
external customers.
Eddie Wu: If an external customer is utilizing all of our services across cloud, all of Alibaba
Cloud services spanning storage, spanning big data, and all of these other things, then of
course that customer would be accorded a higher level of priority. If you have a customer that's
merely renting a GPU to meet some very simple inferencing needs, then the demands of those
customers would accordingly be given a slightly lower level of priority.
Eddie Wu: t[Foreign language]
Eddie Wu: Moving on to the second question, which I thought was a really good one. I think
there are two pieces to this issue. First is the demand side. Second is the supply side. If we
look at foundation models, and these could be video generation models, they could be omni
modal models going forward, but the capabilities continue to increase and be enhanced. We're
not yet seeing any issues in terms of Scaling Law. Nobody's hit the wall yet, so to speak, in the
industry. We continue to make a lot of progress and make very important breakthroughs in
terms of model capabilities. As the models become more powerful, then the AI models will be
able to do more things in the real world. They'll be able to serve a larger variety of different use
cases.
Eddie Wu: That will result in these models serving a lot of tasks. As their capabilities increase,
they become stronger. As these tasks become more deeply embedded across all industries, all
aspects of business operations. With those two drivers, we see in the next three-year period a
highly definitive trend of demand for AI. With all of this rapid growth in demand, we also need
to be thinking about the supply side. I'm sure that you as analysts have also been looking at
the supply side. Starting from the second half of this year, I think we've seen worldwide, if you
look at fabs, if you look at DRAM vendors, storage companies, CPU manufacturers, across all
of those different links in the value chain that go to making AI servers, there is a situation of
undersupply.
Eddie Wu: Supply is unable to keep up with demand for all of these components globally. I
think that you can expect that to continue throughout this scaling up and investment cycle
driven by real demand for AI. We know that the supply side is going to be a relatively large
bottleneck. I think that it could be at least a period of two or three years for those different
suppliers, those different vendors to be able to ramp up their production capacity. In this period
of two to three years, we can expect to continue to see a rapid increase in demand and that to
be driving the supply side. I think in the next three years to come, AI resources will continue to
be undersupplied with demand outstripping supply.
Eddie Wu: What we can see internally in the industry, and if we look at the hyperscalers in the
U.S., all of the latest GPUs are running at full capacity, and not just them, the last generation
GPUs, even GPUs from three to five years ago, so several generations back, those GPUs are to
this day still running at full capacity. Looking ahead to the next, say, three years, we do not
really see much of an issue in terms of a so-called AI bubble.
Lydia Liu: Let's take the last question, please, Operator.
Operator: Thank you. Your last question comes from Jialong Xi from Nomura.
Jialong Xi: [Foreign language]
Jialong Xi: Thank you. In the last earnings call, management shared that Alibaba intends to
grow its market share in the consumption market in China. We have seen that over the past few
months, your investments in quick commerce have indeed resulted in an increase in market
share. I would like to know, apart from quick commerce, apart from instant commerce, what are
the other subsectors in the consumption market that you see as good opportunities for
investment where you will consider scaling up your investments?
Jiang Fan: [Foreign language]
Jiang Fan: Thank you. This is Jiang Fan, let me take this question. You know, Alibaba has been
investing strategically in the consumption market over many years, and we've entered a huge
number of different categories and sub-verticals. Apart from quick commerce, which we've
been investing in heavily, we've talked a lot about it, we also, of course, have Freshippo, we
have the offline O2O model, as well as Fliggy, as well as AMAP, and of course local services.
That is our landscape or matrix of businesses that we've been investing in. I think what we
need to be doing now really is working to integrate, connect those businesses, and to drive
more synergies across those existing businesses. In that way, we can achieve further increase
in our market share in that larger consumption market. Thank you.
Lydia Liu: Thank you. Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking
with you again on our December quarter earnings call.