Bath & Body Works, Inc. (BBWI) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 20, 2025 8:30 AM EST


Company Participants

Luke Long
Daniel Heaf - CEO & Director
Eva Boratto - Chief Financial Officer


Conference Call Participants

Irwin Boruchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Lorraine Maikis - BofA Securities, Research Division
Alexandra Straton - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Kelly Crago - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Mark Altschwager - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Adrienne Yih-Tennant - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Jungwon Kim - TD Cowen, Research Division
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Olivia Tong Cheang - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Dana Telsey - Telsey Advisory Group LLC


Presentation


Operator

Good morning. My name is Melissa, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Bath & Body Works Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]. I'll now turn the call over to Luke Long, Vice President of Investor Relations. Luke, you may begin.


Luke Long

Good morning, and welcome to Bath & Body Works Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Joining me on the call today are Daniel Heaf, Chief Executive Officer; and Eva Boratto, Chief Financial Officer.

In addition to this call in this morning's press release, we have posted a slide presentation on our website that summarizes the information in these prepared remarks and provide some related facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance. As a reminder, some of the comments today may include forward-looking statements related to future events and expectations. For factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements, please refer to the risk factors in Bath & Body Works' 2024 Form 10-K.

Today's call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to this morning's press release and supplemental materials for important disclosures regarding such measures, including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Daniel.


Daniel Heaf
CEO & Director

Thank you, Luke, and good morning. Let me begin by acknowledging that our third quarter results and our lower expectations for the fourth quarter don't live up to the expectations we all have for this brand. I joined Bath & Body Works to accelerate growth, and I remain confident in our ability to do so.

Today, I will set out a clear diagnosis for what's been challenging our performance and the actions we are already taking to address it. While the consumer environment is tougher, this is no excuse as we continue to underperform the sector. We're focused on addressing the issues within our control to return to growth. Our transformation started the week I joined with our no regret moves, and the whole company is working with the utmost urgency, but this will take time. 2026 will be a year of investing behind our brand to strengthen our fundamentals and position our business for sustainable long-term growth.

Before I outline what must change, let me ground you in what endures, the competitive advantages that give us the right to win. We are a market leader in attractive, growing consumer categories. We are an iconic American brand recognized worldwide. We have a vault of beloved fragrance franchises with each of our top 5 franchises generating over $100 million in annual revenue and our largest fragrance generating over $250 million yearly.

We operate more than 2,400 stores around the world, employ a community of exceptional associates, have 40 million active loyalty members and benefit from a fast, largely domestic supply chain. Our business model generates strong margins and high free cash flow conversion. Despite these strengths and the revenue growth in recent quarters, I've concluded that swift and decisive action is needed to build the engine to drive sustainable long-term growth.

From my first day, we have refocused on putting the consumer at the center of everything we do and listening closely to their feedback and insights. This has guided a disciplined end-to-end review of every aspect of our business, product, brand, digital, stores, operations and talent. The plan we are announcing today and the actions we are taking and the strategic investments that we are making are the result of that comprehensive review, not a reaction to a single quarter.

Let me first give you the diagnosis in 4 clear points. Firstly, we pursued adjacencies to attract new consumers, but that strategy has not delivered the growth we expected and it reduced focus in investing in our core categories. Secondly, collaborations that should have been used to drive excitement, energy and equity into our brand have been used to carry quarters.

Thirdly, as these strategies and other tactics have not delivered growth, we have relied on deeper and more frequent promotions. Great value and exciting deals have been part of our brand, and that will not change. However, over reliance on promotion delivers diminishing returns and erodes brand equity, and that is what has happened here. While all these efforts appeal to our existing consumers, they did not grow our customer base, and we have not attracted a younger consumer.

Finally, our organization has become slow and inefficient. Unnecessary complexity has reduced our speed, dampened our innovation, and we prioritized efforts that were not targeted to acquiring a new and younger consumer. Unlocking the next phase of growth requires decisive action. We are investing in new talent, focusing our teams on the highest value work and moving at the speed of the consumer, while optimizing expenses to fuel innovation and long-term performance.

Our strategy is guided by what we have seen working in the marketplace. Over the years, consumers have evolved. They seek greater efficacy, ingredient-led products, modern packaging, emotive storytelling and elevated multichannel experiences. Our competitors have risen to meet those needs. We have not. In some cases, as with our formulations, we have invested in these attributes, but we have not communicated them consistently and effectively.

Today, we are announcing a holistic growth plan to revitalize Bath & Body Works across brands, products and the marketplace designed to drive value for our stakeholders. We are reclaiming our legacy as an innovative brand rooted in nature and benefits and leading the world in scent and self-care. This plan, the consumer-first formula focuses our investment behind our 4 largest revenue-driving opportunities. These strategic priorities have already been communicated across the organization and work is well underway.

The first pillar of our plan is to create disruptive and innovative products that serve the needs of today's consumer. Desire will be designed. We will develop products in our core categories to deliver luxury scents with benefits created to be accessible to everybody, thoughtfully sourced and ingredient-led, refocusing on what made Bath & Body Works distinct.

In 2026, we will reinvest in our core categories. We are returning to best-in-class product leadership in body care, home fragrance and soaps and sanitizers. Two consumer muses designed with deep consumer insights guide our every decision. Jen, who demands bold fragrance, fun, seasonality and value; and Zoe, who craves clean products with elevated scent and design at an accessible price point. These 2 muses keep us true to today's consumer while providing opportunities to engage new and younger consumers.

We are making changes to better serve these muses, embedding consumer insights at the start of product development, accelerating new franchise development and leveraging rapid testing to inform our innovation. Consumers will start to see these new products in the second half of 2026. From body care to home fragrance, we are introducing new forms, vessels and formulas in our core categories that will drive growth and elevate the overall experience.

To sharpen our focus and make our in-store experience less overwhelming, we will cut our assortment and reduce complexity, concentrating on fewer, more on-trend product priorities. Starting in the first half of next year, you will see thoughtful edit to our assortment and selective category exits such as hair and men's grooming as we refocus on the core.

The second pillar of our strategy is to reignite our brand and reclaim cultural relevance. In 2026, we will market fewer, bolder, more targeted product moments with stronger creator advocacy and a more aspirational positioning. You can already see early proof points of this strategy in our Touch of Gold collection. We are recruiting a network of influencers to ignite social buzz while communicating credible science-based claims that differentiates our products from our competitors.

We will make big, bigger by elevating and amplifying 2 iconic Bath & Body Works scents. New consumers will discover and love these fragrances when we treat them with the reference they deserve, elevate and market them properly. We will deliver more impactful visual experiences in all our channels and across social platforms.

The third pillar of our strategy is winning in the marketplace. Discovery should feel effortless. We will make it simpler for a new and young consumer to find us, love us and buy us wherever they shop. We will elevate our owned retail channels and thoughtfully expand our distribution to new channels, positioning ourselves directly in the path of our consumer.

As part of this, we will continue to enhance our app and websites to increase engagement, to make product discovery easier, to deliver richer brand and product stories and to reduce purchase friction. This work is already well underway. For example, our mobile homepage has undergone a refresh. And in early 2026, we will invest in a permanently lower and more competitive free shipping threshold.

We will also expand thoughtfully into marketplaces and select wholesale channels with Amazon expected to go live in the first half of 2026. In anticipation of an Amazon launch, we are carving brand-dilutive gray market selling by restricting bulk purchases from resellers online and in-store. Amazon will enable us to reach new consumers and reengage lap ones, and we will launch with a curated assortment of evergreen, hero products and over time, introduce products designed to acquire a new consumer.

Our brand-operated channels will always carry the widest assortment and offer the most immersive brand storytelling. And to encourage new consumers to enter our operated stores, we will pilot updated merchandising, improved navigation and refreshed retail marketing in 2026. Our final pillar is operating with speed and efficiency. We expect to fund investments through better execution, timing inventory, shortening cycle times and implementing a multiyear cost savings program. Consistent with the focus of the Consumer First Formula, this initiative prioritizes high-value consumer-focused activities funded through value engineering and sourcing optimization.

We have planned to deliver $215 million in cost savings over the next 2 years with over half identified for 2026. These savings will be reinvested into revenue-generating activities in product and brand. A transformational plan requires transformational leadership, and we are putting the right leaders in the right roles with clear accountability. Earlier this month, we welcomed Maly Bernstein as our Chief Commercial Officer, overseeing the full marketplace across stores, digital and wholesale channels. She brings extensive multichannel retail experience within our sector, backed by a proven track record of impressive results.

We're equally thrilled to welcome Veronique Gabai as our product and merchandising adviser. Her creative vision, strategic insight and global experience in beauty will add invaluable perspective to our transformation. In addition, we also now have in place new leaders across digital, wholesale and human resources, and we will continue to invest in talent to support the execution of our plan.

As a result of our no-regret moves that I outlined 6 months ago, some of our strategic actions are already visible to the consumer, but it will take time before we see the benefits in our financial performance. I believe that we have the foundation, the plan and the focus to deliver sustainable growth and shareholder value. We are acting with urgency and clarity, putting the consumer at the center of every decision. I am confident in Bath & Body Works' future and the immense opportunity we have in front of us.

And now I will hand over to Eva.


Eva Boratto
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. As Daniel emphasized, our path forward is anchored to the 4 pillars of our Consumer First Formula, creating disruptive and innovative product, reigniting our brand, winning in the marketplace and operating with speed and efficiency to attract a new and younger consumer to the brand and unlock our next era of growth. We will invest behind our strategy as we also drive diligent cost discipline to fund the actions we're taking.

Our team is already hard at work unlocking the targeted $250 million of additional cost savings over the next 2 years. While we are moving with pace, this strategy will take time to impact our financial performance.

Now turning to the financials. I'll begin with a summary of the third quarter. I'll then provide an update on our Q4 guidance.

As Daniel noted, the Q3 results didn't live up to the expectations we have for this brand. In Q3, we delivered net sales of $1.6 billion, down 1% to the prior year and adjusted earnings per diluted share of $0.35, both below our expectations. Relative to our expectations, the Villains collection did not generate the consumer excitement, traffic or sales that we expected. Our start to holiday in late October has been very challenging. I'll provide more color on that shortly. Versus prior year, all of our core categories declined low single digits. This underscores the need to focus investment in our core categories.

In U.S. and Canadian stores, net sales totaled $1.2 billion, flat versus the prior year. Direct net sales were $299 million, a decrease of 7% compared to last year. When adjusted for buy online, pick up in store, which is reported as store sales, digital net sales were down 1%, a sequential improvement from Q2 performance. While we continue to make progress on our app and mobile web enhancements, there is substantial work ahead to develop a best-in-class experience.

International net sales were $73 million in the third quarter, an increase of 6% and in line with our expectations. International system-wide retail sales grew 16% in the quarter, a continued acceleration as the business has stabilized since the effects of the war in the Middle East.

Our third quarter gross profit rate of 41.3% was below our expectations and decreased 220 basis points compared to the prior year, driven by a 260-basis point decrease in merch margin. Our merch margin was negatively impacted by approximately $35 million or roughly 200 basis points from tariffs. We increased our promotional activity to clear seasonal product as we ended the quarter with clean inventory.

The merch margin decline was partially offset by D&O driving 40 basis points of leverage, with -- which benefited from the exit of a third-party fulfillment center in Q1. SG&A as a percentage of net sales was 31.2%, representing a 120-basis point deleverage compared to the prior year. The deleverage was driven by soft sales performance, investments in new stores and higher health care costs. In response to weaker sales, we acted quickly to flex costs down such as store payroll and incentive compensation, which partially offset the deleverage bringing it all together, third quarter operating income was $161 million, down 26% to last year.

Turning to real estate. Our portfolio remains healthy with 59% of our fleet in off-mall locations. In the third quarter, we opened 40 new North American stores, primarily in off-mall locations and permanently closed 10 stores, primarily in malls. Internationally, our partners opened 10 new stores and closed 3 stores during the quarter, and we ended the quarter with 544 stores.

Our international store expansion plans for 2025 remain on track with at least 30 planned net new store openings. Moving to our Q4 guidance. The trends we experienced at the end of the third quarter have continued into the first few weeks of Q4, with sales to date down high single digits. Macro consumer sentiment is weighing heavily on our consumers' purchase intent. Recent data shows consumer confidence continued to decline due to a number of factors, including concerns about job loss and affordability. This dynamic negatively affected our start to the holiday season and our largest quarter. This impact is compounded by a highly competitive retail marketplace.

Our research indicates that our customers are waiting for deeper discounts before making purchases. In this volatile environment, we are providing cautious guidance that assumes these early Q4 trends persist through the season, while we are taking action to strengthen our performance. With that as context, we expect Q4 sales to be down high single digits versus last year and gross profit rate to be approximately 44.5%, which includes the impacts of tariffs and higher promotional levels, which we believe are required to compete effectively.

We expect our SG&A rate to be approximately 24%, reflecting top line declines, partially offset by disciplined cost management. We are aggressively managing costs while working closely with our teams to ensure that any reductions do not compromise the consumer experience.

Moving down the P&L. We expect interest expense and other of approximately $60 million and a tax rate of approximately 25% and weighted average diluted shares outstanding of approximately 204 million. Considering these inputs, we are forecasting fourth quarter earnings per diluted share of at least $1.70. At this point, we believe this guidance represents a floor for Q4 performance, and we are working with urgency to improve upon it.

For the full year, we are lowering our net sales guidance from 1.5% to 2.7% growth to a decline of low single digits and are lowering our adjusted earnings per diluted share guidance range from $3.35 to $3.60 to at least $2.87. You can find additional details of our guidance in our slide presentation.

Now for an update on capital allocation. We are planning for capital expenditures of approximately $240 million during the year, down from previous guidance as we prioritize highest return projects. In the third quarter, capital expenditures totaled $81 million, bringing the year-to-date total to $174 million. Our full year free cash flow expectation is now approximately $650 million, reflecting our current performance trends, partially offset by our ongoing inventory management actions and reductions to capital expenditures.

In Q3, we returned $41 million to shareholders through dividends and repurchased 3 million shares of common stock for $87 million at an average price of $29.25 per share. Year-to-date, we have returned $126 million to shareholders through dividends, and we have repurchased 11.5 million shares of common stock for $343 million.

In closing, we are focused and moving with urgency against the actions we must take to return our brand to growth. On our Q4 earnings call, we will update you on our 2026 outlook and the strategic KPIs to measure our continued progress.

I'd like to extend my gratitude to our teams across the company for their hard work. Let's now open it up for Q&A.