Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Interpreted] [Operator Instructions] First question will be asked by Andrea Randone of Intermonte.

Andrea Randone
Intermonte SIM S.p.A., Research Division

[Interpreted] I have a few questions. Here they come. So I have a question on marketing first. For 2025, would you please remind us of the impact of marketing? Do you expect that percentage to remain constant? Because you did mention some initiatives for 2026, but it's always interesting to understand what we can expect. It's maybe not going to be as innovative as this year with the film, but we are really interested in trying to understand what you have in mind for next year, too.

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted] Is this your only question? Sorry, I can't hear you anymore, Mr. Randone.

So we'll take your question in the meanwhile. So we normally spend 6.2, 6.4, 6.3. In the last 3 years, we did 6.8 and 6.9, and it's going to be 6.9 again this year. And starting next year, we're going to go back to 6.4, 6.5 because, of course, the cost of the movie was quite sensible.

Then you said you have more questions?

Operator

[Interpreted] This is the operator. The line of Mr. Randone has become disconnected.

Next question will be asked from the English conference, and Chris Huang of UBS will ask it, please.

Chris Huang
UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Firstly, congratulations on the film and also the very encouraging constant FX guidance you just provided. So I have 2, please. The first one, specifically on Q4. So you mentioned in the press release that you expect Q4 the retail channel to be in line with Q3 at constant exchange rates. Could you just maybe confirm what was the number you saw in Q3 because you don't disclose normally constant FX growth by channel. But if we do a rough calculation, it seems to be [indiscernible] So is that the expectation you have for Q4 retail FX neutral?

And connected to this, what are the regions and nationalities you are seeing that is driving this underlying acceleration given the tougher comp base?

Secondly, on marketing, just a follow-up to the commentary you just provided. So if I caught it correctly, you said marketing around 7% in 2025 and that budget will slightly normalize into 2026. So should we expect your EBIT margin in 2026 to see a more meaningful expansion compared to the slight improvement you are expecting in 2025?

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted] Thank you, Chris. Luca will answer this question on margin.

Luca Lisandroni
MD, CEO & Executive Director

[Interpreted] Yes, Chris. As to retail growth in Q4, that was 14.4% at current exchange rates, which is 15% at constant exchange rates. So that's the benchmark for Q3.

As to the nationalities and geographies. As you know, we have a main proxy that actually nationalities seem to mirror the geographical countries of origin from different customers. So we confirm that by the end of the year, we expect the geographical mix will be very similar to the first 9 months. So there's beautiful continuity in all regions.

Well, Chris, as to the 6.9% marketing budget, if we do 6.4%, 6.5% next year, that's something we had expected ever since the beginning because we had budgeted the cost of the film to be split over 3 years. But as far as margins are concerned, we always try and do a bit better than the year before, but it's not a mathematical formula. I mean you don't necessarily take money from marketing and put it on margins, it's not automatic.

Because we always think that profit should be very, very healthy. I've seen it in this time as well, young people are very careful. And when I say young people, I mean people in the mid-20s that are highly educated and that have a very clear understanding of what they consider fair profit and fair compensation of workers. So being fair, being just is very, very important for people in the 20s and 30s. Thank you, Chris.

Operator

[Interpreted] The next question will be asked by Charles-Louis Scotti of Kepler Cheuvreux.

Charles-Louis Scotti
Kepler Cheuvreux, Research Division

Yes. I have 2, please. The first one, could you remind us the breakdown of the 11%, 12% constant FX growth in '25 between volumes, prices and mix and also the key building blocks behind your 10% constant FX guidance for next year, and more specifically, the expected pricing contribution?

And second question regarding your e-commerce. Could you remind us the size of your e-com business and the split between DTC and wholesale? And do you have any long-term ambitions for e-commerce revenues or should we view it primarily as, I don't know, a tool to support your omnichannel clients and a discovery channel to recruit new customers?

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted] Okay. I'll take the second question first, if you don't mind. Now for the e-commerce launch, we don't have any special ambition in mind. I mean direct e-commerce is about 7% today. Globally, it's 12.5% to 13%, including multi-brands. But we don't expect big things from it right now. But what we do expect is product showcasing.

I mean people go to the stores with the pictures of what they've seen online already. So presenting products on an e-commerce website properly is extremely important, with this new system, which will help you and advise you on what to wear. So it's going to be a major image-building tool. But as far as actual sales are concerned, we don't expect much from it.

We still feel physical stores are fundamentally important, especially for men's. They need a lot of advice. And also if you want to create something special in outfit, which is just perfect for you, you need physical content and advice.

As to growth, today, volumes accounted for 3.5% to 4%. And for next year, we expect the same. We know that prices next year may be 3% to 4%, depending on the pricing of raw materials. Unfortunately, after 6 years of employment contract was renewed in Italy after 6 years of standstill. So it's pretty stable, so to say. But we do expect a good atmosphere in stores because I do think that that's something you feel.

I mean there's a good rebalancing going on. And if we altogether were brave enough to mix up the results of '21, '22, '23, '24 and '25 of luxury companies and see them all together as a 5-year plan, we would be satisfied with revenues, margins and everything because we went through 3 years of relevant growth and 2 years of rebalancing.

Operator

[Interpreted] The next question from Maria Meita of Bernstein.

Maria Meita
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division

I just have one and for clarification, regarding your guidance for 2026, is a 10% growth at current or constant exchange rates?

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted] Well, it's always the same target. I mean we start at the beginning of the year with a 10% target, and we've been doing this for 14 years. The impact of exchange rates has always been very, very limited. This year, it was a bit higher. Maybe next year, it's going to be similar. It swings a bit, but we'll see as we go during the year. But our order of magnitude at the beginning of the year is always the same. We want to grow it around 10% to still be extremely exclusive.

Operator

[Interpreted] [Operator Instructions] Next question will be asked by Oriana Cardani of Intesa Sanpaolo.

Oriana Cardani
Intesa Sanpaolo Equity Research

[Interpreted] I actually have 3 questions. First will be about the performance in Q4 of the retail channel. So what is the impact of like-for-like growth versus the [indiscernible] new openings? What's the impact of this on the double-digit growth you expect for Q4?

And the second question is about new openings, extensions, new concessions starting in 2026. What estimated impact of those on the growth you expect next year for retail?

And third question is about the beautiful docu film you just presented and -- in Rome on December 4. So what kind of distribution do you envisage for the film outside Italy? Is it going to be circulated to America and Asia? Is it going to be accompanied by special events?

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted] So as far as the contribution of new openings and the retail growth, this year was very beautifully balanced between growth on the comparable basis and the new openings or expansion. Then as to the value of concession in 2026, you, Oriana, should consider that when they are performed during the year, the gap between wholesale and retail is offset each other because on the one hand, the wholesale is for the whole -- it's true that the retail value is higher than the wholesale, but over time, distribution basically translates in a 0 effect in the first year. There will be a shift from wholesale to retail.

Then as for the movie, Oriana, we will have loads of events, Japan, America, across the board. Well, a last for me, but there's also Carolina, Riccardo, they will be going there, too. But we are very pleased that the feedback was particularly pleasing because that's the name of the brands and the titles. So the London prize for the style because you see the awards we received in London was not for the product, but for the whole lifestyle, putting together luxury and design. So that's a very strong message.

Then the movie. So this seems to augur well. But I've always thought that when you stop wanting to travel, then you have to stop. So now that young CEOs will be traveling more than me. You see, I went to the premier in Rome the other night, and I came back at 3 in the morning. So I was wondering, God, I wonder if I'd be awake for the call.

But the idea, Oriana, is that the movie was directed by a man with a soul. Thank God, you see, it bears the name of the brand, and they say that it can be very successful abroad, too. So I would -- as I keep saying, Oriana, tomorrow, we should be known better -- sorry, less than today. So we only have 500,000 customers at the end of the day. Thank you, Oriana.

Operator

[Interpreted] [Operator Instructions] So there are no further questions.

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted] Very well. So thank you. Thank you very much, and best wishes for the festive seasons. We will meet many of you in Milan tomorrow. And hopefully, you will spend some nice holidays, but be confident because high-quality products will always have -- always be special. What really matters is to find the skilled hands. Thank you, and have a great festive season.

Operator

[Interpreted] The conference call has ended. You can now disconnect your phones. Thank you.

[Portions of this transcript that are marked [Interpreted] were spoken by an interpreter present on the live call.]