Bilibili Inc. (BILI) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 13, 2025 7:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Juliet Yang - Executive Director of Investor Relations
Rui Chen - Chairman of the Board & CEO
Xin Fan - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Alex Liu - BofA Securities, Research Division
Thomas Chong - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Felix Liu - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Xueqing Zhang - China International Capital Corporation Limited, Research Division
Yiwen Zhang - China Renaissance, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to Bilibili's Third Quarter 2025 Financial Results and Business Update Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Juliet Yang, Executive Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Juliet Yang
Executive Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator. During this call, we'll discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events or results could differ materially from those mentioned in today's news release and in this discussion due to a number of risks and uncertainties including those mentioned in our most recent filings with the SEC and Hong Kong Stock Exchange.

The non-GAAP financial measure we provide are for comparison purpose only. The definition of this measure and the reconciliation table are available in the news release we issued earlier today. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. In addition, an investor presentation and a webcast replay of this conference call will be available on the Bilibili IR website at ir.bilibili.com.

Joining us today from Bilibili senior management are Mr. Rui Chen, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Ms. Carly Li, Vice Chairwoman of the Board and Chief Operating Officer; and Mr. Sam Fan, Chief Financial Officer. I will now turn the call to Mr. Chen.

Rui Chen
Chairman of the Board & CEO

Thank you, Juliet, and thank you to everyone for joining us today to discuss our 2025 third quarter results. Our 2025 momentum carried through the third quarter as we delivered solid growth, improved profitability and attracted an even larger, more engaged community. As an influential hub of diverse interest, our high-quality content offerings and unique community experience, continue to fascinate the hearts and minds of young generation. We are increasingly seeing this in our key user metrics, which have resumed an accelerated growth trajectory since the beginning of the year.

In the third quarter, our DAUs rose 9% year-over-year to 117 million. MAUs grew 8% to 376 million, and average daily time spent per user increased to 112 minutes, up 6 minutes from the same period last year, each hit an all-time high. We are very proud of these numbers as they show users rising demand for quality content and the welcoming community spirit that makes Bilibili unique. We will keep building on the strong user momentum and reinforcing our leading user mind share as the best PUGV community in China.

This solid community growth is translating into increasing commercial value with even greater opportunities ahead. While enjoying engaging content, users are demonstrating a stronger willingness to spend on our platform, both directly and indirectly. Monthly paying users hit a record high of 35 million in the third quarter, up 17% year-over-year, with more users converting through our various games and VAS offerings.

We're also seeing deeper engagement around consumption as users increasingly turn to Bilibili for advice and inspiration with real purchasing intent. Our advertising business also accelerated and revenue grew 23% year-over-year in the third quarter, with an average user age of 26, a maturing cohort with stronger purchasing power and expanding consumption needs. We're capturing more commercial potential across the platform and realizing greater value from our users' evolving needs.

Building on these strong fundamentals, we delivered solid financial results in the third quarter. Total net revenues grew 5% year-over-year to RMB 7.7 billion as our revenue mix shifts toward high-margin business. Gross profit increased 11% year-over-year with gross margin expanding to 36.7%, marking the 13th consecutive quarter of growth. Supported by disciplined cost management and higher operating leverage, our non-GAAP operating and net profit surged 153% and 233%, respectively, year-over-year.

Our non-GAAP operating and net margins reached 9% and 10.2%, respectively, showing meaningful improvements from the same period last year. These metrics underscore the sustainability of our growth model reflected in our continued profitability expansion. Notably, we welcomed another blockbuster game, Escape from Duckov, Táo Lí Ya Ke Fu in October. This self-developed single-player extraction shooter game became an instant hit after its debut, selling over 3 million copies globally and earning great user reviews. The success illustrates our sharp genre insights, in-house development capabilities and solid execution in reinventing games for new generations of gamers. There is still a lot of unmet demand in the market, and we are ready to tap into it with our upcoming pipeline and robust game content ecosystem. As we continue to strengthen our business fundamentals, AI is becoming a key enabler of our future growth.

Later this year, we plan to launch several AI-powered applications, including multilingual video accessibility features such as AI-enabled dubbing, subtitles and lip syncing. We're also developing a new video generation tool tailored to video podcast production where compelling storytelling defines high-quality output. Beyond these initiatives, AI is consistently enhancing our operational efficiency, and there is so much more to explore. Looking ahead, our focus remains on empowering our unique PUGV community, strengthening our commercialization capabilities and sustaining profitability. We will continue to scale our core businesses while exploring opportunities such as innovative games and AI-empowered solutions to enhance user experience and capture additional monetization potential.

With that overview, let's take a closer look at our core pillars of content, community and commercialization. Beginning with content and community. Our ecosystems continue to grow stronger as quality content and community connections reinforce each other. This growing synergy is reflected in record engagement and increased commercialization demonstrating Bilibili's ability to turn cultural relevance into sustainable growth. Average daily time spent hit a new record high of 112 minutes in the third quarter. This is a 6-minute increase over the same period of last year. Mid- to long-form videos remain our hallmark.

Users continue to show high engagement with our more substantial informative content and watch time for videos over 5 minutes increased by 20% year-over-year in the third quarter. Our official members grew to 278 million with ongoing steady 12-month retention of around 80%, reflecting strong user loyalty. ACG remains the legacy category of our cultural ecosystem. Chinese anime content watch time more than doubled this quarter, led by popular series made by Bilibili such as A Record of Mortal's Journey to immortality Fan ren Xiu Xian Zhuan, The Tales of Herding Gods Mu Shen Ji and Ling Cage Líng lóng. The success of these Chinese anime drove premium memberships to a record high of 25.4 million. In addition, game content grew solidly with watch time up 22% year-over-year. This momentum further reinforced games as our largest ad vertical with Bilibili continuing to provide the ideal community for developers to engage players and strengthen their IP influence.

Meanwhile, AI-related content remains one of our fastest-growing categories. Watch time was up nearly 50% year-over-year, and revenues from AI advertisers rose around 90% in the third quarter, highlighting Bilibili's position at the intersection of tech innovation, user interest and commercialization. Lifestyle and consumption-related content also grew as our audience matures and their interest diversify. Our mid- to long-form creator led storytelling content is keeping viewers engaged and drawing more interest from advertisers. For example, automobiles stood out in the third quarter, with watch time up nearly 20% and ad spending rising 35%, demonstrating how our community continues to evolve with our users while expanding opportunities for brands.

Our creator ecosystem is the key force behind our progress and creators sit at the center of Bilibili. As a platform, our most important job is to help talented creators build their followers faster and earn more. In the first 9 months of 2025, the number of creators with 1,000, 10,000, 100,000, and 1 million followers, each grew by over 20% year-over-year. Over the same period, nearly 2.5 million creators earned income on Bilibili through various advertising and VAS products and average income per creator increased by 22% year-over-year. These trends show how creators success and user engagement reinforce each other, strengthening the foundation of Bilibili's content ecosystem.

Now let's talk about our commercial businesses and their progress. Our commercial momentum continued in the third quarter as we tapped into more of the value behind our highly engaged and growing user base. Advertisers are increasingly recognizing the strength of Bilibili's influence and total advertising revenues grew 23% year-over-year to RMB 2.6 billion. In Q3, we continued advancing our ad infrastructure on multiple fronts. By leveraging our multimodal LLM, we gained a deeper understanding of video content, community interaction and their interconnection with user intent improving our ad targeting and recommendation efficiency.

Meanwhile, our upgraded Smart Ad placement system automates campaign routing and delivery, maximizing scale, speed and performance. This drove a 16% year-over-year increase in the number of advertisers seeking incremental value on Bilibili. Beyond ad algorithms and placement, our AIGC creative tools add another layer of ad efficiency. Advertisers can automatically generate compelling titles and thumbnails, saving production time and cost while improving conversion rates. In the third quarter, over 50% of the performance ads materials had the help from our AIGC tools, assisting advertisers reach users more effectively with content that resonates with their intended audiences.

These infrastructure advancements go beyond efficiency, they're reshaping how advertisers connect with our community. By combining intelligent algorithms with authentic engagement, we're turning creativity into conversion and positioning Bilibili's ad business to capture higher value as we continue to scale. This quarter, our top 5 advertising verticals were games, Internet services, digital products and home appliances, e-commerce and automobile. As our mid- to long-form PUGV deliver more informative content and more real usage scenarios for users, we have become an ideal platform for digital products and home appliance brands to reach and convert young users.

Ad revenues from digital products and home appliances and home decoration both grew by over 60% as more and more online merchants recognize the commercial value of our unique young user base. They are allocating larger advertising budgets to our platform. In addition to our anchor verticals, we continue to see incremental ad revenue from emerging verticals. In Q3, ad budgets from AI and education both increased meaningfully.

Turning to our games business. In the third quarter, game revenues came in at RMB 1.5 billion, down 17% year-over-year, mainly due to the high base from the same period last year when San Mou was initially launched. We continue to focus on building a diversified game portfolio laying a stronger foundation for long-term growth in our gaming business. In the third quarter, San Mou maintained its popularity. We further enhanced the user experience by streamlining gameplay and character progression to create a more balanced and enduring title. Building on our success in the domestic market, we plan to launch the traditional Chinese version of San Mou in Q1 2026 for Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.

With additional international versions planned for later next year, opening it up to strategy players worldwide. Besides San Mou, our legacy titles, FGO and Azur Lane continue to be welcomed by ACG lovers maintaining loyal fan communities and consistent engagement. On the 16th of October, we launched Escape from Duckov, our first single-player extraction shooter game, developed in-house by a 5-man team. The indie game won over millions of users with innovative gameplay and its cute graphics. Over 3 million copies have been sold globally across various platforms making Escape from Duckov, the #1 popular indie game in China this year. This was an encouraging debut for us and a prime example of our expanding game development capabilities across genres and platforms.

Leveraging our leading game content platform and influential game creators, we are confident we can expand the IP and bring more franchise titles to players next year. Looking at our pipeline, we are preparing to roll out Ncard San Guo in early 2026, an asymmetric PVP card game inspired by the Three Kingdoms culture, designed for a broad audience of lightweight players. The game features fast-paced matches that lasts around 3 minutes per round, making it well suited to casual on-the-go play. As our first step into the casual gaming genre, the title is backed by Bilibili's vibrant gaming community which provides a strong foundation for player acquisition and long-term engagement. Results from the beta test have been encouraging, and we will continue refining the game to deliver a creative, unique casual card game experience.

And finally, let's look at our VAS business. Revenues increased 7% year-over-year to RMB 3 billion. This quarter, more users joined our live broadcasting universe as we continued expanding content aligned with their interest. Our focus remains on refining operations to ensure steady, sustainable growth while further improving margins. Driven by our popular Chinese anime titles, premium memberships also maintained solid growth, reaching a record high of $25.4 million by the end of the quarter. Around 80% of members are on annual or auto renewal plans, underscoring their loyalty and deep connection to our community.

Other VAS products continue to grow rapidly in the third quarter led by our fan charging program, which saw its revenue nearly double year-over-year. This momentum reflects users' willingness to directly support the creators and high-quality content they value most. Beyond the numbers, we remain deeply committed to shaping a healthy culture and community for China's young generation. ESG principles are central to that mission. This year, MSCI ESG reaffirmed Bilibili's A rating, recognizing our ongoing progress in using technology and culture to create meaningful impact.

In conclusion, everything we've achieved today comes from more than a decade of staying focused on one thing, building great content in a vibrant community. This long-term focus has created a self-reinforcing cycle where high-quality content attracts younger users and engage community as ongoing value and monetization follows organically. As we become more profitable, this flywheel will become even more effective. We will stay firmly on this path and continue to create lasting value for all of our stakeholders.

With that, I will turn the call over to Sam to share more financial detail. Sam, please go ahead.

Xin Fan
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Mr. Chen. Hello, everyone. This is Sam. In the interest of time on today's call, I will review our third quarter highlights. We encourage you to refer to our press release issued earlier today for a closer look at our results. In the third quarter, we continue to grow revenues and expand our margins and profitability, driven by growth across our commercial businesses, particularly in our high-margin advertising businesses. Total net revenues for the third quarter were RMB 7.7 billion, up 5% year-over-year. Approximately 39% from VAS 33% from advertising, 20% from games and 8% from our IP derivatives and other businesses. Our cost of revenues increased by 2% year-over-year to RMB 4.9 billion in the third quarter, while our gross profit rose 11% year-over-year to RMB 2.8 billion.

Our gross profit margin reached 36.7% in Q3 compared with 34.9% in the same period last year. Our expanding gross profit and margin show that our model is built to scale. Our total operating expenses were RMB 2.5 billion, down 6% year-over-year. Sales and marketing expenses decreased 13% year-over-year to RMB 1.1 billion, mainly due to decreased marketing expenses for our games. G&A and R&D expenses were RMB 509 million and RMB 905 million, respectively, both flat year-over-year. These efforts allowed us to maintain positive operating results. Our operating profit was RMB 354 million compared with a loss in Q3 2024. Our adjusted operating profit was RMB 688 million, and our adjusted operating profit margin reached 9% in the third quarter versus 3.7% in the same period a year ago.

Net profit was RMB 469 million, versus a loss in Q3 2024. Our adjusted net profit was RMB 786 million, and our adjusted net profit margin in the third quarter was 10.2% compared with 3.2% in the same period a year ago. Cash flow-wise, we generated about RMB 2 billion in operating cash flow in the third quarter. As of the 30th of September 2025, we had cash and cash equivalents, time deposits and short-term investments of RMB 23.5 billion or USD 3.3 billion. Under our USD 200 million share repurchase program, approved by the Board in November 2024, we've repurchased a total of 6.4 million shares so far at a total cost of USD 116.4 million, leaving about USD 83.6 million available for future buybacks as of the 30th of September 2025.

Thank you for your attention. We would now like to open the call to your questions. Operator, please go ahead.