Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alex Liu of Bank of America.

Alex Liu
BofA Securities, Research Division

I think it's a great quarter. And we see DAU and MAU and time spend are basically all at the historical high and it's growing, accelerating. So I was just wondering if management can share more about what's the really drivers behind this?

And in terms of the user in terms of future engagement, is there any medium-term target? And also for monthly paying users is also accelerating in terms of growth and what are the drivers behind? And how should we think about in the future the -- what are the latest new user paying for content trends?

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted]. The fundamental reason for our continuous user growth lies within our focus on high-quality content and high-quality content is always a strong and sustainable growth driver.

Actually we think there has been a fundamental change of video content supply. And currently, the video content supply is very much sufficient and in some way, even oversupplies, oversupplied. Every year, there's tens of billions of new videos being created and riding on the rapid adoption of AI tools, there are going to be tens of thousands, billions -- trillions of new videos being made every year.

However, we think that the quantity of the video and the quality of the video are two different things. the high-quality content is still in short of supply. And once someone started to enjoy or start watch high-quality content, it's very hard for them to go back. They got pickier. They wouldn't go back to the low quality time killing type of videos. That's why Bilibili has a long runway for growth, is because the demand for high quality content will continue to rise and the population that will be interested in Bilibili content will grow.

Apart from our focus on high-quality content, our unique community aspect of our business also helped further strengthen our advantage. This is because our community can help to discover high-quality content and also help our talented content creator to continuously to focus on their content creation because content needs to be discovered with the eye of beauty. And we have that many, many users that they have the passion for high-quality content that they also have the taste to select and promote those high-quality content.

The good content creator needs good audience and Bilibili is where those 2 parties meet and resonate with each other, especially for content creators before they got popular and earned good reputation, there's a relatively long fair wait for them to grow in Bilibili's community and the users' encouragement will accompany them to go through that process. That's why you see those content creators on Bilibili, they have been creating content on our platform for 5 years, even 10 years long.

This -- let's look at the MPU trend. This quarter, our MPU reached a new record high of 35 million, grew by 17% year-over-year. For third quarter, particularly it's the premium membership business, which is the primary driver of that. But on a long-term horizon, we think the 2C business, the user paying for content type of business model will be a very big growth driver.

I'll talk about 3 reasons that will drive the content consumption related paying activity. First of all, is our users. The average age of our users is now at 26 years old, a cohort with increasing income and expanding consumption scenario. They are generating on both the 2B advertising front as well as the 2C, the paying for content -- paying for services aspect.

And we believe that -- the second point is that we believe creator who consistently produce high-quality content over a long period of time can foster their personal IP and drive a sustainable monetization. There's a very large group of content creators that has been producing content on Bilibili for a very long time. Through that period they create their own personal brand and they have their own reputation. People will follow their new creation. That's why the fan charging program. Whenever they sell their own premium courses or even their personal IP derivatives, people -- their followers, their fans will pay for that content or services. That is also driving the overall MPU growth.

And the last point is that what we have discovered is for the younger generation consumption is mainly driven by self-gratification. People will pay for things that make them happy. They will pay for people that they love and this trend has become even more clear nowadays with our initiatives on the fan charging program, helping our content creator to monetize their own personal IP. So this will be another very important growth factor behind that continuous growth of our MPU. That concludes the answer for this question.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Thomas Chong of Jefferies.

Thomas Chong
Jefferies LLC, Research Division

My question is about the payment business. We saw Escape from Duckov receive remarkable results. Can management share about its future business plan. Do we have any plan of developing a mobile game.

On the other hand, can management comment about Sanguo: Ncard with regard to its monetization testing end of October. When should we expect it to be released? On other hand, what are the games in the pipeline do we anticipate? For San Mou, is the performance in Q3 meet expectations? How should we think about the performance in the next 1 year?

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted]. I'll talk about the Escape from Duckov and truly, this game has been the dark horse of the year in the games market in less than 1 month after its debut. It has already sold over 3 million copies across various platforms globally, and the peak concurrent user has reached over 300,000. And based on the current momentum, it is safe to say, Escape from Duckov has the potential to become the #2 best-selling console game in the history of China. So this has been very encouraging. And on top of that, besides the volume, the sales volume players have been giving the game extremely high ratings. On Steam platform, there have been tens of thousands comments and 96% of them are overwhelmingly positive.

And why it has been so successful? I think there are 2 main reasons. As a player myself, I think, first of all, this game is a fun to play game. There's a lot of games launched every year, not every one of them is fun to play. And we found this game is very carefully designed with different stages and the graphics. People will find it's a really true fun game to play. People will enjoy themselves. And secondly, is the game has very light mood. When you play it, you don't feel the stress of PVP. And it's just the simple pleasure to collect and loot. So -- and also this game doesn't pressure people to spend a lot of time or spend a lot of money. It's just very easy-breezy and at this time of the year it's very entertaining and fun to play. So those 2 elements, fun to play and relaxing are the 2 main reasons for this game to success.

And the reason behind that is when we are thinking about setting up a project like this back in 2023, it was just simple a few young developers gather together who has been a true fan of Escape from Tarkov, the type of game has extraction -- the extraction game fans. They wanted to create something that's for the young generation, easy to play, relaxing and with cute graphics. This is a very good example of how we are thinking about our game strategy, reinventing games for the new generation of gamers. It is also an example of how we have been taking niche genre in the game market and do make it to the best. And we think that's the perfect example of how we are executing our game strategy, and this is one of many examples of our pipeline, how we are designing it.

And on the IP expansion question, we have -- because the game currently is only on PC, we have already kicked off the project console and the mobile adoption for Escape from Duckov because on console and on mobile projects, there's going to be a difference with the gameplay. We will be spending a lot of time to fine-tune the project and while doing so, we'll also continue to listen closely to our gamer community, and we will share updates when the time is appropriate.

As for the Ncard game, currently, the close beta testing has been going very smooth and we will be focusing on fine-tuning and polishing the game and make it to its best and introduce to the market. It's currently expected to be released in Q1 next year.

And for the Ncard game, it's designed to cater the need of casual card game user genre. And it will be very short on-the-go play for 3 minutes per round. This is another attempt into catering the new generation of gamers. And there's a lot of innovation within the gameplay and hopefully, leveraging our very unique and best of state gamer community as well as our talented content creators leveraging our PUGV community as well as the live broadcasting community, we can bring this innovative game to all of the Bilibili users. Because the game, there's a lot of aspects. There's -- lots of the aspects has very great innovation, and we are putting a lot of effort trying to make it the best quality. And we will be spending time fine-tuning the game. And when the game is launched, the #1 go for this game is the DAU growth. And hopefully, this game will become Bilibili's another great evergreen titles.

As for San Mou, it is one of the most important titles in our portfolio. And overall, the performance in the third quarter was in line with our expectations. And we will be focusing on fostering a very balanced and use character progression and we will be focusing on the user satisfaction. So the goal for the title, the most important goal for this title is longevity. We are hoping to make this game at least 5 years -- to operate over 5 years long. And in the first quarter of next year, we plan to launch the traditional Chinese version of San Mou in Hong Kong, Macau Taiwan. And in the second half of next year, we'll be rolling out additional international versions. Thank you. That concludes this question's answer.

Operator

The next question comes from Felix Liu of UBS.

Felix Liu
UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Congratulations on the very strong results, especially on the advertisement part. How does management see the growth potential in your ad business from here? Can the management share more color on the potential of the improvement in recommendation algorithms and AI on your ad business from here? And more on the near term, how does management see the advertisement demand for the recently concluded Double 11 Shopping Festival as well as the overall Q4.

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted]. In Q3, our advertising revenue reached RMB 2.57 billion, up 23% year-over-year with our market share continuing to rise. On top of the steady growth for our performance-based ads, we're seeing both brand and sparkle ads grew much faster than overall market based on our complete industry data. The brand ads and Sparkle ads growth rate are among the fastest-growing players in the industry.

And how should we think about the ad revenue growth going forward? I would like to firstly talk about the underlying growth -- the underlying logic of Bilibili's ads. As time go by, more clients are recognizing and tapping into the value of Bilibili ecosystem and its users. Thanks to the uniqueness of our community, our ads key advantage is that we can deeply shape and make a big impact on users' purchasing decisions.

To put it more simply, Bilibili advertising business can bring to our advertiser, number one, it will not be a one-off value hit. Secondly, we'll bring more -- we are more effective at bringing new users, new customers. Thirdly is we're more likely to drive a sharp increase in repeat purchase from both new and existing users. In other words, we will help our clients to achieve both short-term conversion goals and long-term brand-building goals.

Yes, yet anything we haven't fully perfectionized, realize the underlying logic is a pure upside for the future. From a client perspective, our top 5 advertiser verticals in Q3 were gaming, Internet services, consumer electronics and home appliances, e-commerce and automotive.

And to better serve our clients, advertising clients, there is 3 main points: One is to enhance our strategy or service for our super key accounts, SKAs. We will be serving our largest clients with a dedicated service team and a year-round integrated Bilibili marketing solutions. Our goal for this team is to achieve over 90% repurchase rate and keep increase our share of their spending on Bilibili.

Secondly is we're hopeful -- hope to replicate our successful model into multiple new verticals. We're using an always-on performance model to better serve our other verticals especially for those with big spending budget, such as big FMCG categories like food and beverage, pet and baby, beauty, apparel, we expect a new wave of clients and budget to come on to our platform.

As the competitive landscape become more diversified in the second half of this year and even next year, we are still very confident that by 2026 there is still substantial growth potential in gaming our platform e-commerce and content consumption-related advertisers.

And third point is we are planning to expand our ad penetration across different community scenarios. And this will be another growth driver because Bilibili by itself, it has many consumption scenario within our products, unlike other platforms where most consumption happens in a single video feed. Our users are spending a lot of time watching videos within the players, within the commentary session and also in the bullet chats. And they also watch live streams, they also engage with live stream content. They do search, they browse trendy topic and hot searches on our platform and also consuming content across multiple devices, including mobile, PC, OTT and et cetera. And in Q3, ad revenue from these different scenarios all grew by more than 50% year-over-year. But the current penetration is still very behind where we think it can be, which means there's still a lot of room to grow.

And the fourth point is about the -- your question on AI. We have been discussing intensively internally that AI as a topic that can be easily making people overly optimistic about the short-term burst to the advertising revenue, while overlooking as potential to fundamentally reshape the industry over the long term. However, there's still a lot of positive changes we are seeing first of all is on the AIGC creatives, now is account for 55% of the total creative volume in the performance-based apps, and it's continued to rise. We are providing video generation tools to our clients in the Internet service sector, such as for online novels, we support text to video generation. And for sure, drama advertiser we supported the AI highlight everything. In these sectors, AI generated video creatives already account for over 60% of the creative consumption and this upgrade has freed up a lot of productivity.

And the second application for our AI is on the smart delivery system. Currently, the automated buy-in smart delivery app advertisement system is already accounting for 45% of the overall performance based ad spend. And most clients have been seeing their spend scale up through this model. Thirdly is on the recommendation efficiency by combining the multimodel content understanding with the generative recommendation algorithms, we have been lifting our distribution efficiency by more than 10% in total. All of above are the tangible results and benefits that AI has been brought to us this quarter. However, we do think that AI has -- we do think AI with a long-term mindset. The real significant lies for the new opportunities and the structural change that will unlock over time, and we will be trying a lot of innovation with a long-term mindset, not just a short-term bump in a few matrix and revenue lines.

And lastly, on our Double 11 results. So first of all, looking at our users, especially the Gen Z consumers, their spending power is 2 to 3 times that of the previous generations. They are used to online consumption as their default shopping avenue and they buy when it makes them happy. They buy when they like something or they truly need something. They no longer chase the rock bottom prices in a single promotion time window in a mechanical way. All of this observation is pointing to the huge commercial potential embedded in the Bilibili user profile and our ecosystem.

And given that, our Double 11 report card this year still exceeded our expectations. During this year's Double 11 Bilibili's ad revenue grew 30% year-over-year and the number of advertisers more than doubled. Over the Double 11 campaign period, Bilibili delivered on average of new customer rate of 55% for all industries and in categories such as watches and jewelries, household daily goods, food and beverage and beauty, the new customer rate even exceeded 60%.

Lastly, on the outlook for Q4 and next year, we remain upbeat about the advertising business. And more importantly, we're hoping to deliver something more meaningful and new breakthroughs and changes within our business.

Operator

Next question comes from the line of Xueqing Zhang from CICC.

Xueqing Zhang
China International Capital Corporation Limited, Research Division

Congratulations on the strong result. My question is regarding your financial outlook. The company's profitability has continued to strengthen and looking ahead to Q4 and into 2026, how do you expect the gross margin and the net margin trends as we maintain a strong cash position, how do you plan to allocate cash in the future?

Xin Fan
Chief Financial Officer

This Is Sam, I will take your question. Yes, we continue to see strong operating leverage in our business. In Q3, our top line grew by 5%, and our gross profit grew by 11% year-over-year. Our gross profit margin has improved for 13 consecutive quarters. We expect this trend to continue this year and reaching 37% in Q4. We keep our midterm gross profit margin target that's 40% to 45% unchanged.

Additionally, our adjusted operating profit that's profit before the other income jumped over 150% year-over-year with adjusted operating margin expanding from 3.7% to 9% year-over-year. We expect that number to further improve to around 10% in Q4 this year and keeping us on a steady path to our midterm target of 15% to 30% adjusted operating margin. We already saw the resilience of Bilibili business model and our strategy of focusing on healthy revenue growth and the leveraging scale of our sustainable profit expansion. We are confident in reaching our mid- to long-term margin targets.

Regarding to the cash usage, we will allocate our resources carefully. Currently, we already generate over $1 billion free cash flow every quarter. So we -- first of all, we will support our high-quality revenue growth engine like advertising business. Secondly, we will invest in some new opportunities, for example, to expand our business boundaries like reinventing some games for new generations just like Duckov, right? We already announced a plan to explore Duckov opportunity to the console game and the mobile game. The least but not last, we will also capture some major industry opportunities.

For example, we are also seeking for the new talent for in areas like AI. But regarding to the shareholder returns, we have repurchased over USD 100 million worth of shares this year already. And we have a 2-year share buyback plan as approved by our Board. We still have around USD 83 million left. We expect to fully utilize that amount in the remaining period of the plan.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Yiwen Zhang from China Renaissance.

Yiwen Zhang
China Renaissance, Research Division

I have a question regarding AI application. You discussed a few AI functions and products you have just launched. So what is your thinking and expectation on future AI application on Bilibili. Also, what kind of impact do you think products like Sora will bring to video production and consumption?

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted] Bilibili has the highest AI density among our -- both of our content creators and our users. Many of China's best AI-themed content creator and the user who is most interested in AI talent, they are all active and gathered on Bilibili.

And in the third quarter, nearly 100,000 creators were active on Bilibili every month working on AI-related content. Some of them are doing the latest machine learning explanation -- explaining. Some of them are breaking down and teaching new AI applications or using AI for video creation. And the average daily number of AI-related video uploads in the third quarter increased over 80% year-over-year in the third quarter.

And there's lots of potential for us to further discover because we have gathered over 2/3 of young generation in China on Bilibili. That is the exact cohort who is eager to learn about AI or leverage AI technology to create things.

Well, when you asked me about whether Sora will change how people create or consume content, we think -- personally, I think Sora is new ammo on both content -- video content creation and also user interface. But as I said earlier on, there's already oversupply of short video content. The adoption of AI tools will not -- will only increase of that video supply will not -- it will not change how people consume the content. However, on the high-quality video aspect there's still a scarcity in terms of the high-quality content supply and the adoption of these tools will help us to increase the supply and improve the talented content creators efficiency in producing such content. And we've seen this on many of those content categories that AI is becoming the new paradigm. For example, in the auto-tune remix sector in the music sector or even the animation sector, there's a lot of very good quality videos that were made with the help of AI tools. So to summarize, we do think that the AI will be a fundamental efficiency booster for high-quality video creation and Bilibili will be most benefited from that technology innovation.

And based on that observation, we'll be very focused on the video track of the AI applications. We wanted to make AI to be effective tools to help our content creator to produce higher quality videos. You probably already seen some of the functions where we have launched lately, for example, there will be a multilingual video accessibility features, including dubbing, subtitles and even lip syncing. We are also planning to launch an AI-enabled text to video tools tailored for video podcast type of content. We believe this product will help bring more high-quality content on Bilibili and to our users.

Juliet Yang
Executive Director of Investor Relations

That concludes the question-and-answer session. Operator, back to you.

Operator

Thank you, once again for joining Bilibili's Third Quarter 2025 Financial Results and Business Update Conference Call today. If you have any further questions, please contact Juliet Yang, Bilibili's Executive IR Director or Piacente Financial Communications. Contact informations for IR in both China and the U.S. can be found on today's press release. Thank you, and have a great day.

[Portions of this transcript that are marked [Interpreted] were spoken by an interpreter present on the live call.]