BJ's Wholesale Club Holdings, Inc. (BJ) Q3 2026 Earnings Call November 21, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Anjaneya Singh
Robert Eddy - President, CEO & Chairman
Laura Felice - Executive VP & CFO
William Werner - Executive Vice President of Strategy & Development

Conference Call Participants

Peter Benedict - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Katharine McShane - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Robert Ohmes - BofA Securities, Research Division
Steven Zaccone - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Michael Baker - D.A. Davidson & Co., Research Division
John Park
Pedro Gil
Charles Grom - Gordon Haskett Research Advisors
Rupesh Parikh - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to BJ's Wholesale Holdings, Inc. Third Quarter Fiscal 2024-'25 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions].

I now pass the call over to our host, Anj Singh, VP of FP&A. Please go ahead.

Anjaneya Singh

Good morning, and welcome to BJ's Third Quarter Fiscal 2025 Earnings Call. Joining me today are Bob Eddy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Laura Felice, Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Werner, Executive Vice President, Strategy and Development.

Please remember that we may make forward-looking statements on this call that are based on our current expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from what we say on this call. Please see the Risk Factors sections of our most recent SEC filings for a description of these risks and uncertainties.

Please also refer to today's press release and latest investor presentation posted in our Investor Relations website for a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements and non-GAAP reconciliations.

And now I'll turn the call over to Bob.

Robert Eddy
President, CEO & Chairman

Good morning. Thank you for joining us to discuss our third quarter results. Our business delivered strong results in Q3 and performed well in an incredibly dynamic environment. Once again, we gained share and grew traffic, marking the 12th consecutive quarter of market share growth and the 15th consecutive quarter of traffic growth.

These consistent results are a testament to the value that we provide to our members each day as we are guided by our purpose of taking care of the families who depend on us. This purpose has never been more relevant as many of our members are dealing with a considerable level of unpredictability in their everyday lives. This has impacted consumer confidence, which has been at low levels for much of this year. And we are taking these conditions as a call to action to lean even further into value for our members' everyday needs.

Some of our actions include incremental offers to those members that may need a little bit more help in the current environment. In addition, we're rolling out reduced delivery fees to make our most convenient shopping channel even more accessible. The combination of value and convenience is a powerful unlock for us, and this will help our members realize even more value from their BJ's membership.

We've also launched a 10% discount for our team members as a way of thanking those who are on the frontlines living our purpose every day.

For the quarter, we delivered merchandise comparable comp sales growth of 1.8% and adjusted earnings per share of $1.16. It's helpful to evaluate the performance on a 2-year stack basis to normalize for the impact of last year's port strike and hurricane activity. Our 2-year stack comp was 5.5%, an acceleration of nearly 1 point versus the first half.

Our Q3 comp performance was evenly balanced across our 2 reportable divisions. Our perishables, grocery and sundries division grew comp sales by 1.8% with a 2-year stack that accelerated sequentially of 6%. The investments we've made in both Fresh 2.0 and our category management process have driven continued share gains across our consumables franchise.

We saw the most strength in perishable categories such as fresh meat, dairy and produce, aided by our Fresh 2.0 investments. We also saw strength in nonalcoholic beverages and candy and snacking, driven by enhanced assortment and more prominent placement in our clubs.

Our general merchandise and services business also grew by 1.8% on a comp basis in the quarter. Consumer electronics comped in the high single digits on success in computer equipment and tablets. Apparel, which we've highlighted on several recent calls, continues to grow, comping in the low single digits.

The offsets we saw this quarter were in home and seasonal, which continued to be impacted by lower discretionary demand and consumer confidence, as well as some of the decisions we made earlier this year to tighten our inventories in light of the anticipated impact of tariffs. Our services business also contributed to the improved performance in this division during the quarter.

Looking at the behavior of our membership base this quarter, we continue to see members across all income levels remain cautious, which tracks with what we broadly see in the consumer confidence data. We saw members exhibiting value-seeking behavior, including higher sensitivity to promotions, increasing purchasing of private label items and some trade down. For example, given the high price of beef, we saw higher purchasing of ground beef versus more expensive cuts.

Despite this type of behavior, member trends exhibited stability quarter-over-quarter across all cohorts when adjusting for the noise from the port strike. While value-sensitive members remain more exposed to the macro backdrop, we did not see any incremental pullback from them. That resilience reinforces BJ's position as a trusted destination for strong value and convenience when it matters most.

The environment continues to move quickly, but our teams haven't lost sight of the fundamentals. By zeroing in on our controllables, they're advancing our strategic agenda, increasing member stickiness, making our clubs better places to shop, expanding convenience and growing our physical footprint. These elements are central to creating value over time, and we built further momentum in each this quarter.

I'll now provide an update on how those pieces are evolving.

Our membership results continue to be robust, and we grew membership fee income by nearly 10% this quarter, driven by strong member counts, mix benefits and the effects of our recent fee increase. We expect the growth rate to show further improvement into the fourth quarter and to once again deliver a 90% tenured renewal rate for the full year.

The core of our membership health is driven by growing the number of members as well as improving the mix of those members. In the third quarter, our higher tier membership penetration reached another new record, improving by 50 basis points sequentially. And we continue to see more opportunity to push here.

We would not be able to deliver sustainable membership growth without parallel improvements in our merchandise. We are launching many new owned brands products, which are aimed at improving the member experience by offering excellent quality at an unbeatable price.

Some of the products we are excited about include Wellsley Farms branded tortilla and potato chips, protein shakes, frozen poultry and coffee pods. This is just a small list of many new high-quality products that we plan to launch at amazing price points.

Owned brands products have a multitude of benefits as they are typically priced at about 30% below national brands while offering comparable quality of national branded items. This gives our members even more compelling value for their hard-earned dollars, which in turn drives loyalty and higher lifetime value.

Owned brands products also deliver higher penny profit for us, which we can use to invest back into the member experience, further propelling the flywheel that drives our business. We're excited to see how our customers respond to our improved offerings.

Our efforts to continue to improve the convenience of shopping our clubs can be seen in the digital growth of 30% this quarter and 61% on a 2-year stack basis, driven by strength in BOPIC, same-day delivery and ExpressPay.

We're looking to further drive innovation by utilizing AI to deliver enhanced content highlights and attributes, making shopping even easier for our members. We also recently beta launched an AI shopping assistant and personalized member shopping lists, and we're looking forward to taking these live to our members soon.

Last but not least, our new club footprint expansion. We opened our club in Warner Robins, Georgia during Q3. And just last week, we opened our fifth Tennessee club in Sevierville. I'm pleased to report that both clubs are off to a great start, joining the class of 2025 clubs that have outperformed expectations, with membership counts 25% ahead of plan. The community reaction at all of our recent openings has been nothing short of phenomenal, and we are proud to serve these communities.

Our expansion strategy has been a sustained and accelerating success, with clubs opened over the last 5 years delivering comp performance about 3x the chain average. On deck for new club openings, our Springfield, Massachusetts; Sumter, South Carolina; Casselberry, Florida; Chattanooga, Tennessee; Soma, North Carolina and Delray, Florida. That will make 14 new clubs for the year, the most we've had in many years. We remain on track to add 25 to 30 new clubs in 2 years, and our pipeline of new clubs is as large as it has ever been.

Speaking of our pipeline, we are excited to announce 2 more 2026 openings in Foley, Alabama and Mesquite, Texas as well as a relocation of our club in Rotterdam, New York. Mesquite will be our fifth Dallas-Fort Worth Club opening in 2026.

We've been impressed with the warm welcome we've received as we've introduced the BJ's brand to the market over the past few months, including our Friday night life sponsorships, which was capped off with South Grand Prairie taking home the trophy and the [ Prairie Bowl ] sponsored by BJ's Wholesale Club.

The enthusiasm we've seen in these new markets has been awesome, and we can't wait to bring the value of BJ's Wholesale Club to Texas families early next year.

As I look at our business, I see improving momentum. Our membership is growing in size and quality. We are making improvements in merchandising and continue to capitalize on the convenience of our digital offerings. And as I just said, our footprint expansion is accelerating and successful.

While the short term may be somewhat unpredictable, I'm confident that our company is in an excellent position to deliver value to our members and make good on our commitments to shareholders. We will continue to act with purpose in building our structurally advantaged business for the long term, and you should continue to expect that we will run the business with lifetime value at the core of our actions.

Before I turn it over to Laura, I want to thank our team members. Your dedication to serving the families who depend on us and your commitment to supporting one another make BJ's a great place to shop and a truly special place to work. I'm proud of all that we are accomplishing together.

Laura Felice
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Bob. I'd like to start by recognizing the outstanding efforts of our team members in our clubs, at our club support center and throughout our distribution network. Your hard work and commitment to serving our members and communities are instrumental in delivering a solid quarter and advancing our long-term growth agenda.

Let's look at our third quarter results.

Net sales for the quarter were approximately $5.2 billion, growing 4.8% over the prior year. Total comparable club sales in the third quarter, including gas sales, increased 1.1% year-over-year as the average price of gas declined mid-single digits year-over-year. Merchandise comp sales, which exclude gas sales, increased by 1.8% year-over-year and by 5.5% on a 2-year stack. We are pleased to grow traffic and units in the quarter.

This quarter, we lapped the surge of business brought by last year's port strike. At this time last year, we estimated it to have contributed about 1 point of comp in September.

Moving to this year, September was by far the weakest month as we comped the strike, with August and October generally performing in line with our expectations. We believe it may be helpful to evaluate trends on a 2-year stack basis to assess the business, and I'll reference this metric in my overview.

Our third quarter comp in our grocery, perishables and sundries division grew 1.8% year-over-year with a 2-year stack of 6%, showing slight acceleration versus the first half. Our general merchandise and services division comp also increased by 1.8% in the third quarter with a 2-year stack of about 2%, an improvement versus the declines seen in the first half. As Bob noted earlier, traffic and market share grew again in this quarter, and we experienced approximately 1 point of inflation.

Digitally enabled comp sales for the third quarter grew 30% year-over-year and 61% on a 2-year stack. Our digital businesses performance is an affirmation of the values our members find in the improved and dramatically more convenient shopping experience.

We find that the members that engage with us the most digitally and utilize all of our offerings, end up being the most valuable members with the highest lifetime value. We will continue to invest in our digital capabilities to gain even more wallet share of our members.

Membership fee income, or MFI, grew 9.8% to approximately $126.3 million in the third quarter on strong membership acquisition and retention across the chain. We also continued to benefit from the fee increase that went into effect at the beginning of the year. Our underlying member growth remains healthy, and we continue to improve the member mix.

Moving on to gross margins, excluding the gasoline business, our merchandise gross margin rate was flat on a year-over-year basis as we continue to invest in our business and in our members, along with execution towards our longer-term objectives. We expect to continue to invest in Q4 and beyond as we lean into our purpose and do the right thing for our members, which will be the right thing for us in the long term.

SG&A expenses for the quarter were approximately $788.2 million and deleveraged slightly as a percentage of net sales year-over-year. Adjusting for the legal settlement benefit that we realized last year, SG&A as a percentage of net sales was about flat year-over-year.

We continue to grow comp gallons and gain share in our gas business. Our comp gallons in the quarter grew 2% year-over-year, a nice improvement versus Q2's flat performance and again significantly outpaced the industry, which declined low single digits on a comp basis over the same time frame. We have been in a much less volatile gas margin environment this year with profitability just modestly ahead of our expectations in Q3.

Our third quarter adjusted EBITDA was down about 2% year-over-year to $301.4 million, owing largely to lapping the benefit of a legal sentiment last year. Adjusting for the settlement, adjusted EBITDA grew approximately 5% year-over-year on higher top line and strong cost discipline. Our third quarter effective tax rate was 26.9%, slightly lower than our statutory rate of approximately 28%.

All in, our third quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.16 decreased approximately 2% year-over-year due to the legal settlement. Adjusted earnings per share grew approximately 8% year-over-year, normalizing for the settlement benefit last year.

Moving to our balance sheet, we ended the third quarter with total and per club inventory levels down 1.5% and 5% year-over-year, respectively, while our in-stock levels increased by 90 basis points. Note that we are operating 9 more clubs in our chain compared to a year ago. The favorability in our inventory investment continues to be related to reduced inventory buys.

I am proud of our team's hard work to stock even more of our merchandise our members want while improving the operating efficiency of our business. This is yet another driver of the flywheel, with which we can pass along even more savings to our loyal members.

Our capital allocation strategy remains consistent. We believe profitably growing the business is our best use of cash and investments to support membership, merchandising, digital and real estate initiatives will continue to be funded by our cash flows. We ended the third quarter with net leverage of 0.5x.

Share buybacks are a key component of our capital allocation framework. And in Q3, we took advantage of the lower share price and repurchased approximately 905,000 shares for $87.3 million. As of quarter end, we have approximately $866 million remaining under our recently renewed repurchase authorization. We will continue to take a disciplined and balanced approach to deploying our capital to maximize shareholder value.

Looking ahead to the remainder of the year, we are confident in the momentum of our business and our ability to deliver sustained growth, especially in an uncertain economic backdrop. Our teams are focused on controlling the controllables while executing towards our long-term objectives.

With regards to guidance and as we have been speaking to on this call, the macro environment is challenging. We have made decisions to be prudent with inventories in the face of this environment, challenging our ability to grow general merchandise sales. We made that choice in order to allow continued investment in member value in the rest of the business. While it will hamper sales in the short term, we remain confident that this was the right decision.

With that in mind, we are narrowing our guidance for the full year merchandise comp sales to a range of 2% to 3% for the full year. We are also increasing our range of expected adjusted earnings per share to be $4.30 to $4.40.

The actions we've taken to support stronger, more sustainable growth are working, and our long-term roadmap is solid. With a resilient business model and clear strategic direction, we're well equipped to keep building on our success and deliver substantial value to our shareholders in the years ahead.

Bob, back over to you.

Robert Eddy
President, CEO & Chairman

Thanks, Laura. As I noted earlier, we are making progress in building momentum. We're elevating the quality of our membership base while it grows. We're curating a stronger, more relevant assortment at prices that reinforce our value promise. Our digital tools are improving member experience, and our expansion strategy is bringing the BJ's model to new high-potential markets.

Looking forward, our commitment doesn't change. We will keep living our purpose and focusing on the people and communities who rely on us every day while executing on the long-term priorities that drive our growth.

Thanks again for joining us today and for your support of BJ's Wholesale Club. We will now take your questions.