The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (BK) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 13, 2026 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Marius Merz - Head of Investor Relations & Corporate Development and Co-Head of Business Finance
Robin Vince - President, CEO & Chairman of the Board
Dermot McDonogh - Senior Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Ebrahim Poonawala - BofA Securities, Research Division
Michael Mayo - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Kenneth Usdin - Bernstein Autonomous LLP
Steven Chubak - Wolfe Research, LLC
Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Brennan Hawken - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Betsy Graseck - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Glenn Schorr - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
David Smith - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Emily Ericksen - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
David Konrad - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to the 2025 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call and webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material. You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY's consent.

I will now turn the call over to Marius Merz, BNY Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Marius Merz
Head of Investor Relations & Corporate Development and Co-Head of Business Finance

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call. I'm here with Robin Vince, our CEO; and Dermot McDonogh, our CFO. As always, we will reference our quarterly update presentation, which can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at bny.com.

And I'll note that our remarks will contain forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Information about these statements and non-GAAP measures is available in the earnings press release, financial supplement and quarterly update presentation, all of which can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website. Forward-looking statements made on this call speak only as of today, January 13, 2026, and will not be updated.

With that, I will turn it over to Robin.

Robin Vince
President, CEO & Chairman of the Board

Thanks, Marius. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. I'll begin with a strategic update, and then Dermot will take you through our financial performance in the fourth quarter, our outlook for 2026 and our increased targets for the medium term as we look ahead toward the next phase on our journey to unlock BNY's full potential over the long term.

Starting on Page 3 of our quarterly update presentation. 2025 was another successful year for BNY. In short, we delivered record net income of $5.3 billion on record revenue of $20.1 billion and generated a return on tangible common equity of 26%. Total revenue grew by 8% year-over-year. In combination with expense growth of 3%, we drove 507 basis points of positive operating leverage on a reported basis and 411 basis points excluding notable items, resulting in an improved pretax margin of 35%. Consistent execution delivered 4 consecutive quarters of positive operating leverage in 2025, bringing us to 8 consecutive quarters overall. Taken together, we grew earnings per share by 28% year-over-year to $7.40 and returned $5 billion of capital to our shareholders through common dividends and share repurchases.

This strong financial performance was the output of our work to reimagine BNY and was enabled by tangible progress across strategic priorities over the past year, which we highlight in the 4 boxes on Slide 4. First, our commercial model is working. Operating as One BNY, we are starting to bring the full breadth of the company together to deliver more products and services to meet our clients' needs. This includes embedding sales practices and behaviors that enable our teams to deliver more and better for clients with greater consistency to drive deeper relationships with existing clients and open the door to new ones. We achieved record sales performance for the year, and we announced several noteworthy wins in the fourth quarter. Further deepening our relationship, WisdomTree selected BNY as their banking-as-a-service provider for the WisdomTree Prime platform.

This solution brings together banking, payments, custody and digital assets to support the growth of WisdomTree's new retail distribution model and its strategy on being a leading digital asset forward investment manager. Jupiter, an active asset manager, selected BNY for a suite of capabilities from front to back, from investment, operations and data management all the way through to custody, streamlining their operating platform and positioning them for the future. And Japan's Government Pension Investment Fund selected BNY to deliver integrated data and analytics for private markets. This solution aims to help them manage complexity, enhance transparency and improve decision-making across their growing alternative investment portfolio.

Second, we continued to make progress in unlocking the scale and growth potential of our platforms by transitioning approximately half of our people into the platforms operating model over the course of 2025, which brings us to more than 70% of our people working in the model today. This initiative has been a core component of rewiring BNY to make us more agile and intentional in how we deliver to clients, but forms part of a larger collection of initiatives that are at the heart of running our company in a fundamentally different way.

Third, in 2025, we made significant advances in the adoption of AI, underscoring our industry leadership in this burgeoning space. Built upon very deliberate investments over the past several years, our enterprise AI platform, Eliza, is unlocking capacity for our people, allowing them to focus on higher value work for our clients. We recently announced a collaboration with Google Cloud to integrate Gemini Enterprise capabilities into our Eliza platform, enhancing our ability to support deep research, analysis and data-intensive workflows across the company, building on existing collaborations with OpenAI and others. These collaborations underscore our commitment to deploying AI responsibly and at scale. We expect that over time, AI will allow us to remake many of our processes and systems in new and exciting ways. And that, together with embedding AI in our products and services, represents a significant opportunity for our company in the years ahead.

Fourth, BNY has a rich 241-year history of innovation from issuing the first loan to the U.S. government to becoming the first U.S. G-SIB to offer digital asset custody. Our focus on innovating new products and solutions is centered on building trusted market infrastructure for the long term and serving our clients in new and evolving ways, including increasing delivery of new capabilities connecting the traditional and digital asset worlds.

This past quarter, for example, we launched the Dreyfus Stablecoin Reserves Fund, a government money market fund designed to support stablecoin issuers and institutional participants to manage eligible reserve assets, providing BNY's cash and liquidity solutions expertise to the growing digital payments ecosystem. Our recently announced tokenized AAA CLO strategy in partnership with Securitize brings high rated structured credit product onto the blockchain with BNY serving as sub-adviser and custodian of the underlying assets.

And just last week, we announced that we have taken the first step in our strategy to tokenize deposits by enabling the on-chain mirrored representation of client deposit balances on our digital assets platform. As we reflect on the scope of our market-leading businesses, our central position as a provider of financial market infrastructure and the depth and breadth of our client relationships, traditional and digitally native. We believe that we are particularly well positioned to advance the future of financial markets.

From the very beginning of our work 3 years ago, we have taken a long-term view toward unlocking BNY's full opportunity as a financial services platforms company with a commitment to disciplined execution and sustained value creation for our clients and shareholders over time. I'm going to touch briefly on some of the work that has brought us here described on Page 5 of our presentation.

Two years ago, we communicated our strategic road map and a set of medium-term financial targets for what we viewed as the first foundation-setting phase in a multiyear transformation of BNY. While there are elements of that work that will continue well into the future, we consider that this is the right moment to begin to turn the page toward our next phase. But before we get to that, I'll take the opportunity to reflect on our efforts, the impact that we've seen across our businesses and operations and how this has started to translate into improved financial performance.

As we embarked on the journey, we recognized early on that we had to work across several fronts at the same time. Simplifying how we operate, improving execution and delivering for our clients and that how we did it as a team was essential to creating deep and enduring change. Thorough strategic and financial business reviews demonstrated to us the powerful combination of capabilities within BNY. We are the #1 custodian in the world and the #1 collateral manager, the leading provider of issuer services and the primary settlement agent for U.S. government securities. We operate a top-tier payments and liquidity franchise and offer our clients leading investments and wealth capabilities.

Individually, these are market-leading businesses, together they represent a set of highly adjacent financial services platforms operating at the center of global financial markets, difficult to replicate at scale and increasingly valuable to our clients. To organize the company around execution, we deliberately framed our work across 3 simple elements of strategy, which we continue to focus on. The first was clients. To be more for them, to deliver more of our existing products to our existing clients, to add new clients, to add new products and to meet clients where they are with solutions tailored to their needs and responsive to market trends and opportunities. The second was on how we run our company. We knew we could do that better, simplifying, improving financial discipline, breaking down barriers, challenging the status quo and reimagining our operating model as a platforms company. The third was culture. Simple to say, hard to do, but magical when it works, a collective sense of ownership, teamwork and accountability, all coming together to bring the other 2 key strategic pillars to life.

This spirit of ownership and accountability is at the heart of our delivery. So it was important to us to build credibility and momentum through consistent execution toward better business and operational performance, some examples of which you can see on Slide 6. What has been and continues to be the single most compelling growth opportunity for BNY is doing more business with our existing clients. In 2024, we launched our new commercial model designed to encourage our sales and service teams to raise their ambition, equip them with new tools and to enable our people to deliver solutions from across BNY, leveraging the full breadth of our platforms.

Over the last 2 years, the number of clients buying 3 or more of our services increased by more than 60%, and organic fee growth has climbed to 3%, reflecting good progress with even greater opportunity ahead. In combination with stronger organic growth, we took steady, deliberate actions to reduce sensitivity to interest rates, driving more resilient top line revenue growth in a range of macroeconomic environments. At the same time, our ongoing transition and increasing maturity in the platforms operating model is reducing friction and driving further productivity improvements.

For example, investments in digitization and automation have meaningfully lowered the unit cost for processes like striking a NAV and settling a trade and our people are building innovative AI solutions that we expect over time will have a meaningful impact across the company. We're proud that in 2025 alone, we deployed over 130 digital employees, industry-leading multi-agentic AI capabilities. Our digital employees work alongside our people, supporting them with tasks like validating payment details and remediating code vulnerabilities, allowing teams to focus on higher value work and client outcomes. Taken together, these metrics give glimpses into the how of our execution, milestones and examples, not end points, but helpful indicators that our strategy is working and that there continues to be meaningful opportunity ahead.

Turning to Slide 7. By centering the company on positive operating leverage as our North Star, we created a clear, intuitive framework for our teams to execute on. The cumulative impact of our steady improvement year after year while capitalizing on a relatively supportive market backdrop has resulted in a meaningful improvement in BNY's financial performance over the last few years. More consistent revenue growth and deliberate expense management have resulted in positive operating leverage, margin expansion and improved profitability, together driving double-digit annual earnings per share growth.

Turning to Slide 8. When compared to BNY's financial performance over the prior decade, we can see the difference that consistent discipline, clear intent and sustained execution make over time. More resilient top line revenue growth has started to build and better control of our expense base has allowed us to continue to self-fund important investments in future growth. While we're encouraged by this progress, we are not satisfied. Our work is far from complete. We remain humble and intensely focused on the opportunity ahead.

To that point, I'll wrap up on Slide 9 with where we are headed next. With the foundations largely in place and more of the people in their seats to help us execute. The next phase of our journey to unlock BNY's potential is about realizing scale and growth opportunities across our company. As we mature in our new commercial and platform models, unlock capacity using AI and in so doing serve our clients in new and better ways, enabling the global financial markets and infrastructure of the future. Taken together, our focus for 2026 and over the medium term represents an exciting shift, built on the work done over the past 3 years to enable higher growth and deliver on the competitive advantages embedded in BNY as we remain steadfast in our commitment to create value for you, our investors.

I want to thank our teams around the world for their dedication to our clients and their commitment to reimagining our company. We are entering 2026 with positive momentum, and we are excited for the work ahead of us. With that, I'll turn it over to Dermot to take you through the financials for the quarter in greater detail before reviewing our outlook for 2026 and our next set of milestones. Dermot?

Dermot McDonogh
Senior Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Robin, and good morning, everyone. I'm picking up on Page 12 of the presentation with our results for the fourth quarter. Total revenue of $5.2 billion was up 7% year-over-year. Fee revenue was up 5%. This included 8% growth in investment services fees primarily driven by net new business, higher market values and higher client activity. Investment management and performance fees were flat as growth primarily resulting from higher market values was offset by the impact of the mix of AUM flows and the adjustment for certain rebates we discussed in prior quarters.

Firm-wide AUC/A of $59.3 trillion increased by 14% year-over-year, reflecting client inflows, higher market values and the favorable impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. Assets under management of $2.2 trillion were up 7%, reflecting higher market values and the weaker dollar, partially offset by cumulative net outflows. Investment and other revenue was $135 million in the quarter, including $43 million of other investment losses and $15 million of net securities losses. Net interest income increased by 13% year-over-year, primarily reflecting the continued reinvestment of maturing investment securities at higher yields and balance sheet growth, partially offset by deposit margin compression.

Expenses of $3.4 billion were flat year-over-year on a reported basis and up 4% excluding notable items. This reflects higher investments and revenue-related expenses, employee merit increases and the unfavorable impact of the weaker dollar, partially offset by efficiency savings. Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $26 million in the quarter, primarily driven by improvements in commercial real estate exposure and changes in the macroeconomic forecast. Pretax margin was 36% on a reported basis and 37% excluding notable items. And return on tangible common equity was 27%. Taken together, we reported earnings per share of $2.02, up 31% year-over-year. And excluding notable items, earnings per share were $2.08, up 21%.

Robin touched on our results for the full year earlier, but turning to Page 13, I'd like to expand on some of the most important items. We grew total revenue by 8% year-over-year to a record $20.1 billion for the full year of 2025. Fee revenue was up 6%. We grew investment services fees by 8%, primarily driven by net new business, higher market values and client activity. Investment management and performance fees were down 2%, reflecting the mix of AUM flows and lower performance fees, partially offset by higher market values and the weaker dollar.

Net interest income was up 15%, primarily driven by the reinvestment of maturing investment securities at higher yields and balance sheet growth, partially offset by deposit margin compression. Expenses of $13.1 billion were up 3%, both on a reported and an operating basis. Excluding the impact of notable items, the increase reflects higher investments, employee merit increases, higher revenue-related expenses and the unfavorable impact of the weaker dollar partially offset by efficiency savings. Pretax margin was 35% on a reported basis and 36% excluding notable items. And return on tangible common equity was 26% for the year. As Robin noted earlier, we reported earnings per share of $7.40. Excluding notable items, earnings per share were $7.50, up 24% year-over-year.

On to Capital and Liquidity on Page 14. Our Tier 1 leverage ratio for the quarter was 6%, down 9 basis points sequentially. Average assets increased by 3% on the back of deposit growth, and Tier 1 capital increased by $439 million driven by capital generated through earnings and a net increase in accumulated other comprehensive income partially offset by capital returns through common stock repurchases and dividends. Our CET1 ratio at the end of the quarter was 11.9%, up 17 basis points sequentially. Over the course of the fourth quarter, we returned $1.4 billion of capital to our shareholders, representing a total payout ratio of 100%. Our consolidated liquidity coverage ratio as well as the consolidated net stable funding ratio remained unchanged at 112% and 130%, respectively.

Next, net interest income and balance sheet trends on Page 15. Net interest income of $1.3 billion was up 13% year-over-year and up 9% quarter-over-quarter. Like the year-over-year increase discussed earlier, the sequential increase was primarily driven by the continued reinvestment of maturing investment securities at higher yields and balance sheet growth, partially offset by deposit margin compression. Average deposit balances increased by 4% sequentially, reflecting 4% growth in interest-bearing and 1% growth in noninterest-bearing deposits. Average interest earning assets were up 3% quarter-over-quarter. Cash and reverse repo balances increased by 4%, loans increased by 5% and investment securities portfolio balances increased by 2%.

Turning to our business segments, starting on Page 16. Securities Services reported total revenue of $2.5 billion, up 7% year-over-year. Total investment services fees were up 11%. In Asset Servicing, investment services fees grew by 11%, primarily reflecting higher client activity and higher market values. Asset Servicing continues to show strong momentum as clients increasingly access the breadth of capabilities across our platforms to help them evolve their operating models.

Sales wins over the course of the year showed broad-based growth across products and segments with particular strength in custody and with alternative asset managers, banks and broker-dealers, a testament to our targeted investments in the fastest-growing segments of the market. ETF AUC/A of $3.8 trillion ended the year up 34% year-over-year, reflecting growth from the more than 2,500 funds serviced on our platform, which was up 22% year-over-year.

Alternatives AUC/A were up 10% year-over-year, including double-digit growth in private markets. We continue to invest in capabilities to support our clients' growth, including in retail alternatives with solutions spanning custody, fund services, corporate trust, FX and hedging. Broadly speaking, approximately half of all Asset Servicing wins this past year represented multiline of business solutions reflecting the growing effectiveness of our new commercial model and client demand for consolidating with trusted partners.

In Issuer Services, investment services fees were up 12% primarily driven by higher client activity in Depositary Receipts. And in our Corporate Trust business, we're pleased with the momentum across our franchise and see significant multiline of business opportunities ahead, especially with corporate and municipal clients. We maintained our #1 position in conventional debt servicing and in CLOs and munis where we hold #2 positions, we increased our market shares by 4 and 3 percentage points year-over-year, respectively.

In Securities Services, overall, foreign exchange revenue was down 3% year-over-year reflecting lower spreads on the back of lower volatility, partially offset by higher client volumes. Net interest income for the segment was up 8% year-over-year. Segment expenses of $1.7 billion were flat year-over-year, reflecting higher investments and revenue-related expenses, employee merit increases and the unfavorable impact of the weaker dollar, offset by efficiency savings and lower litigation reserves. Securities Services reported pretax income of $838 million, a 30% increase year-over-year and a pretax margin of 34%. It is worth highlighting that for the full year of 2025, Securities Services reported a pretax margin of 33%. That was an improvement of 4 percentage points year-over-year and exceeded the medium-term target of equal to, or greater than, 30% that we established for this segment in December of 2021.

Next, Market and Wealth Services on Page 17. Market and Wealth Services reported total revenue of $1.8 billion, up 8% year-over-year. Total Investment Services fees were up 4%. In Pershing, investment services fees were down 2%, reflecting client activity in the prior year quarter related to the deconversion of lost business, partially offset by higher market values. Net new assets were $51 billion in the fourth quarter, representing healthy growth from both new and existing clients. Over the course of 2025, we earned numerous wins from new $1 billion-plus wealth firms and the business accomplished several multiyear contract renewals with key clients.

Our commitment to serving multibillion-dollar growth-minded wealth firms across a full suite of custody, clearing, lending, investment products and wealth services is met with interest from existing and new clients. And we remain focused on capitalizing on the important opportunity to enable growth for breakaway advisers as their platform of choice. For example, this past quarter, 71 West Capital Partners and VestGen Wealth Partners selected BNY Pershing to provide custody and clearing for their new independent full-service RIA firms.

In Clearance and Collateral Management, investment services fees increased by 15%, reflecting broad-based growth in collateral balances and clearance volumes. Average collateral balances of $7.5 trillion increased 15% year-over-year and average settlements exceeded 1 million per day in the fourth quarter, reflecting higher market activity and new clients on our platform. Against a supportive backdrop from continued issuance and demand for U.S. Treasuries, we're focused on innovating solutions that help our clients optimize capital, meet evolving regulatory requirements, scale, operational efficiency and access market infrastructure and liquidity.

In our Payments and Trade business, previously called Treasury Services, investment services fees were up 3%, primarily reflecting net new business. Over the course of the year, this business has shown strong performance on the back of broad-based growth across products and regions. Solid growth and sales wins over the course of the year enabled by our strategic investments in capabilities and talent give us good momentum into 2026. Net interest income for the segment overall was up 20% year-over-year. Segment expense of $930 million were up 9% year-over-year reflecting higher investments and revenue-related expenses, employee merit increases and higher severance expense, partially offset by efficiency savings. Taken together, our Market and Wealth Services segment reported pretax income of $882 million, up 9% year-over-year and achieved a pretax margin of 49%.

Turning to Investment and Wealth Management on Page 18. Investment and Wealth Management reported total revenue of $854 million, down 2% year-over-year. Investment management fees were up 1% driven by higher market values and the favorable impact of the weaker dollar, partially offset by the impact of the mix of AUM flows and the adjustment for certain rebates, which I mentioned before. Segment expenses of $703 million were flat year-over-year as the impact of higher investments and the weaker dollar was offset by efficiency savings.

Investment and Wealth Management reported pretax income of $148 million, down 14% year-over-year and a pretax margin of 17%. As I mentioned earlier, assets under management of $2.2 trillion increased by 7% year-over-year. In the fourth quarter, we saw net outflows of $3 billion, including $23 billion of net outflows from long-term strategies and $20 billion of net inflows into cash. Wealth Management client assets of $350 billion increased by 7% year-over-year, reflecting higher market values. Over the past year, we've worked hard to bring our Investment and Wealth Management business closer to our other BNY platforms, streamlined operations and build towards stronger top line growth, including by making several key strategic hires. We expect that 2026 will be the year in which this work will start to translate into improved financial performance.

I'll close with our financial outlook. Page 21 shows the current expectations for 2026. Notwithstanding a very dynamic operating environment, positive operating leverage continues to be our North Star and so we have set ourselves up for another year of more than 100 basis points of positive operating leverage in 2026. This reflects our current expectation for total revenue, excluding notable items, to grow by approximately 5% year-over-year in 2026, market dependent. And accordingly, a plan for approximately 3% to 4% growth in expenses, excluding notable items.

Specific to the first quarter, I would like to remind you that staff expenses are typically elevated due to long-term incentive compensation expense for retirement-eligible employees. And on taxes, I'd like to note that over the course of 2026, we expect a quarterly tax rate of approximately 23%, with the exception of the first quarter, in which we currently expect to see a tax benefit from the annual vesting of stock awards.

Finally, turning to Page 22 for our outlook for the medium term. 2 years ago, we communicated our first set of medium-term financial targets which were to improve BNY's pretax margin to equal to or greater than 33% and our return on tangible common equity to equal to or greater than 23% while maintaining a strong balance sheet. Today, we are raising the bar. We are increasing our pretax margin target by 500 basis points to 38% and we are increasing our return on tangible common equity target also by 500 basis points to 28%.

These new medium-term financial targets represent the next milestones on our path to unlocking BNY's full potential over the long term. What remains unchanged is our commitment to prudent balance sheet management and with it, our philosophy for capital deployment and distributions. Our Tier 1 leverage ratio management target remains unchanged at 5.5% to 6%, and we will continue to manage ourselves conservatively to the upper end of that range for the foreseeable future.

Robin talked about our strategic priorities for this next phase on our multiyear transformation of BNY earlier. These new medium-term financial targets are a reflection of our confidence in the solid foundation we've built over the past few years and they demonstrate our determination to continue driving positive operating leverage as we realize greater scale and growth opportunities across our platforms.

And with that, operator, can you please open the line for Q&A.

