Boot Barn Holdings, Inc. (BOOT) Q2 2026 Earnings Call October 29, 2025 4:30 PM EDT

Company Participants

Mark Dedovesh - Senior VP of Investor Relations & Finance
John Hazen - CEO & Director
Jim Watkins - CFO & Secretary

Conference Call Participants

Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Peter Keith - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Steven Zaccone - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Maksim Rakhlenko - TD Cowen, Research Division
Janine Hoffman Stichter - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Dylan Carden - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Jonathan Komp - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Samuel Poser - Williams Trading, LLC, Research Division
Christopher Nardone - BofA Securities, Research Division
Jeremy Hamblin - Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, Research Division
Corey Tarlowe - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Mitchel Kummetz - Seaport Research Partners
Ashley Owens - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Boot Barn Holdings, Inc., Second Quarter 2026 Earnings. As a reminder, this call is being recorded.

Now I'd like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Mark Dedovesh, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Finance. Please go ahead, sir.

Mark Dedovesh
Senior VP of Investor Relations & Finance

Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today to discuss Boot Barn's Second Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Results. With me on today's call are John Hazen, Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Watkins, Chief Financial Officer. A copy of today's press release, along with a supplemental financial presentation, is available on the Investor Relations section of Boot Barn's website at bootbarn.com. Shortly after we end this call, a recording of the call will be available as a replay for 30 days on the Investor Relations section of the company's website.

I would like to remind you that certain statements we will make during this call are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect Boot Barn's judgment and analysis only as of today, and actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Boot Barn's business. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.

For a more thorough discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with the forward-looking statements to be made during this conference call and webcast, we refer you to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements that is included in our second quarter fiscal 2026 earnings release, as well as our filings with the SEC referenced in that disclaimer. We do not undertake any obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

I will now turn the call over to John Hazen, Boot Barn's Chief Executive Officer. John?

John Hazen
CEO & Director

Thank you, Mark, and good afternoon. Thank you, everyone, for joining us. On this call, I will review our second quarter fiscal '26 results, discuss the progress we have made across each of our 4 strategic initiatives and provide an update on current business. In addition, I will be sharing the outcome of a recent study we completed, resulting in an increase to our estimated total addressable market and our long-term store count potential.

Following my remarks, Jim Watkins will review our financial performance in more detail, and then we will open up the call for questions. We are very pleased with our second quarter results, which reflect broad-based strength across all major merchandise categories in stores and online and across all geographies. During the quarter, revenue increased 19% compared to the prior year to $505 million, driven by sales from the 64 new stores opened over the last 12 months and consolidated same-store sales growth of 8.4%.

In addition to strong sales growth, merchandise margin rate increased 80 basis points compared to the prior year period. The strength in sales and margin, combined with solid expense control, resulted in earnings per diluted share of $1.37 during the quarter, which equates to 44% growth compared to the prior year period of $0.95. The team's ability to deliver strong top and bottom line results reflects the execution of our 4 strategic initiatives, which I'll now spend some time discussing.

Let's begin with new store growth. Our new store growth engine continues to exceed expectations while expanding the Boot Barn brand across the country. Halfway through fiscal '26, we have already opened 30 new stores, and we expect to open 40 new stores over the balance of the fiscal year, ending the year with 70 new stores opened. We estimate new stores on average will generate approximately $3.2 million in annual sales and pay back their initial investment in less than 2 years. Consistent with our comments last quarter, the new stores opened over the last 6 years are providing an approximately 100 basis point tailwind to consolidated annual comps.

Now turning to our total addressable market and long-term store count potential. The strong broad-based results we have seen across new store openings, merchandise categories and geographies prompted us to revisit the total market opportunity for Boot Barn. Similar to the study we conducted 3 years ago, we have combined our internal analysis with a third-party study to understand the future potential of the Boot Barn brand.

This work, which is summarized on Pages 4 and 5 of our supplemental financial presentation, suggests that the market is substantially larger than our prior estimate, and we now believe that our total addressable market has expanded from $40 billion to $58 billion. Turning to our long-term store count potential. New stores opened over the last few years have consistently generated strong sales and earnings across all geographies, which has emboldened our approach to be a stores-first organization.

We recently reevaluated our store potential across individual U.S. markets and have combined that analysis with a third-party study to support our estimates. We now believe that the U.S. store count can reach 1,200 stores, and we expect to open 12% to 15% new units annually. As we look towards fiscal '27, the pipeline remains very strong, including 20 projected openings in the first quarter, which will begin in April.

I would like to thank the entire team for their tireless efforts in identifying quality real estate, building and merchandising impressive stores, hiring and training both average unit retail and units per transaction of less than 1%. From a merchandising perspective, we saw broad-based growth across all major merchandise categories in the second quarter, led by the ladies business, which comped positive mid-teens. This was followed by the men's business, which comped positive high single digits.

Our denim business, which is included in the categories just mentioned, comped positive high teens. Our work boots business comped low single-digit positive and our work apparel business comped mid single-digit positive. We were extremely pleased to see the broad-based growth across categories continue from the first quarter into the second quarter. From a marketing perspective, Boot Barn proudly sponsors hundreds of rodeo and events every single year.

We support a broad array of events across the country from local rodeos to national sponsorships such as Professional Bull Riders and National Finals Rodeo. We also have long-standing partnerships with country music artists, Miranda Lambert and Brad Paisley, and we recently announced a new sponsorship agreement as the official boot retailer for the Stagecoach Music Festival. As the largest Western retailer in the nation, we are thrilled to form a partnership between our brand and the largest country music festival.

Moving to our third initiative, omnichannel. In the second quarter, e-commerce comp sales grew 14.4% and bootbarn.com, which is approximately 75% of our online sales, comp positive high teens. We are very pleased with the growth in our online channel and attribute a portion of our strong results online to several recent initiatives. I would like to first touch on the rollout of our new exclusive brand websites, which is one of the early visions I had for the company upon assuming my new role as CEO.

The primary goal of these sites was intended to provide a vehicle for brand storytelling and to market our exclusive brands as stand-alone brands, similar to that of our third-party brands. As part of this initiative, earlier this fiscal year, we launched a new website and marketing campaign for our work brand, Hawx, and we duplicated that approach late in our second quarter for our largest exclusive brand, Cody James. We are pleased with the initial returns on both rollouts, particularly the large number of net new customers to Boot Barn that are visiting each site.

In addition to building the brand awareness and authenticity we had hoped for, we are also very pleased with the early sales on these sites. Another initiative we believe is driving strong results online is the implementation and integration of artificial intelligence. Our omnichannel team has improved the search functionality on our website, utilizing AI, which now offers the customer a wider range of search results and more product recommendations when they browse the site.

In addition to the new search experience, Boot Barn is leveraging AI to enhance product copy, support store associates through our Cassidy assistant and develop multimedia training modules. While still in the early stages, we continue to look for opportunities to integrate AI to improve the customer experience and drive efficiencies. Lastly, our strategy to open new stores not only expands our national footprint, but also benefits online sales. When a Boot Barn store opens in a market, we see a noticeable increase in online sales volume in that store's vicinity.

A brick-and-mortar location legitimizes the Boot Barn brand for a new customer and many omnichannel offerings provide a seamless shopping experience for our online customers to also find our store, benefiting both sales in-store and online. I am very pleased with the achievements of our omnichannel team and their collaboration with the stores organization to expand the overall business and provide a great customer experience.

Now to our fourth strategic initiative, merchandise margin expansion and exclusive brands. During the second quarter, merchandise margin increased 80 basis points compared to the prior year period and exclusive brand penetration increased 290 basis points to 41% of sales. I'm thrilled with our team's continued ability to develop high-quality product to complement the great assortment offered by our branded vendor partners.

I'd like to now provide an update on our pricing strategy. As a reminder, third-party price increases of approximately mid-single digits went into effect during the second quarter. As we discussed on our last call, we made a decision to limit exclusive brand price increases in order to evaluate the customers' reaction. Over the last several months, we have worked closely with our exclusive brand factories in order to mitigate the impact of tariffs to the business. In some instances, we have been able to keep our total product costs relatively unchanged, allowing us to maintain merchandise margin rate without increasing prices.

In other instances, we are experiencing increases in product costs as a result of tariffs. The combination of partial cost mitigation and our inventory turns have afforded us the opportunity to wait until after the holidays to implement price increases on exclusive brands without adversely affecting our margin rate in the third quarter. The magnitude of price increases will vary product to product based on current costs as well as where tariff rates settle.

Now turning to current business. We are 4 weeks into the third quarter of fiscal '26, and we have continued to see broad-based growth with a consolidated same-store sales increase of 9.3%, driven by an increase in transactions. While we are pleased with the start to our third quarter, as a reminder, October has historically represented 25% of the quarter's revenue with December alone representing half of the third quarter's revenue.

We remain cautious of overall consumer sentiment and macro uncertainty that will continue to manage -- and continue to manage our business prudently. That said, we feel very good about the current tone of the business, and we believe we are well prepared for a strong holiday season with exciting marketing campaigns, fresh inventory and a well-prepared field organization ready to provide best-in-class customer service.

I would like to now turn the call over to Jim.

Jim Watkins
CFO & Secretary

Thank you, John. In the second quarter, net sales increased 19% to $505 million. The increase in net sales was the result of the incremental sales from new stores and the increase in consolidated same-store sales. The 8.4% increase in same-store sales is comprised of a 7.8% increase in retail store same-store sales and a 14.4% increase in e-commerce same-store sales. Gross profit increased 20% to $184 million compared to gross profit of $153 million in the prior year period.

Gross profit rate increased 50 basis points to 36.4% when compared to the prior year period as a result of an 80% -- or an 80 basis point increase in merchandise margin rate, partially offset by 30 basis points of deleverage in buying, occupancy and distribution center costs. The increase in merchandise margin rate was primarily the result of better buying economies of scale and growth in exclusive brand penetration, partially offset by higher freight expense.

The deleverage in buying occupancy and distribution center costs was driven by the occupancy cost of new stores. SG&A expenses for the quarter were $128 million or 25.3% of sales compared to $113 million or 26.5% of sales in the prior year period. SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales decreased by 120 basis points, primarily as a result of lower corporate general and administrative expenses and legal expenses in the current year period. Income from operations was $56 million or 11.2% of sales in the quarter compared to $40 million or 9.4% of sales in the prior year period. Net income per diluted share increased 44% to $1.37 compared to $0.95 per diluted share in the prior year period.

Turning to the balance sheet. On a consolidated basis, inventory increased 20% over the prior year period to $855 million and increased approximately 1% on a same-store basis. Total inventory increased as a result of adding 15% new stores and growth in exclusive brands. We feel good about the health of our inventory and our markdowns as a percentage of inventory are both below last year and historical levels. During the quarter, we purchased approximately 73,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $12.5 million as part of our authorized $200 million share repurchase program. We finished the quarter with $65 million in cash and $0 drawn on our $250 million revolving line of credit.

Now turning to our raised outlook for fiscal '26. Driven by year-to-date results and the strong start to our third quarter, we are increasing full year guidance. The supplemental financial presentation that we released today outlines the low and high end of our guidance range for both the fiscal full year and third quarter. I will only be speaking to the high end of the range for both periods in my following remarks.

For the full fiscal year, we expect total sales to be $2.235 billion, representing growth of 17% over fiscal '25. We expect same-store sales to increase 6% with a retail store same-store sales increase of 5.3% and e-commerce same-store sales growth of 13%. We expect merchandise margin to be approximately 50.6% of sales, a 50 basis point increase over the prior year period and includes exclusive brand penetration growth of 240 basis points. We expect gross profit to be approximately 37.7% of sales. We anticipate 30 basis points of deleverage in buying, occupancy and distribution center costs due to the occupancy of new stores and 50 basis points of leverage in SG&A.

Our income from operations is expected to be $294 million or 13.2% of sales. We expect net income for fiscal '26 to be $219.6 million and earnings per diluted share to be $7.15. We plan to grow new units by 15%, adding 70 new stores during fiscal '26. We expect our capital expenditures to be between $125 million and $130 million, which is net of estimated tenant allowances of $39 million. And for the balance of the year, we expect our effective tax rate to be 26%.

For the third quarter, we expect total sales at the high end of our guidance range to be $700 million and a consolidated same-store sales increase of 4.5%. We expect merchandise margin to be approximately 49.7% of sales, a 30 basis point increase from the prior year period, which includes a 200 basis point increase in exclusive brand penetration. We expect gross profit to be approximately 38.8% of sales, which includes 70 basis points of deleverage in buying, occupancy and distribution center costs.

Our income from operations is expected to be $107 million or 15.3% of sales, a 100 basis point deleverage compared to the prior year period. We expect earnings per diluted share to be $2.59. As a reminder, income from operations in the third quarter last year benefited by approximately $6.7 million, primarily related to the former Chief Executive Officer's forfeiture of unvested long-term equity incentive compensation and the reversal of cash incentive bonus expense as a result of his resignation. We estimate in the third quarter last year that this was a 110 basis point benefit to SG&A and income from operations and a $0.22 benefit to earnings per share.

Now I would like to turn the call back to John for some closing remarks.

John Hazen
CEO & Director

Thank you, Jim. We are very pleased with our second quarter and year-to-date results and the positive momentum of the business as we head into the holiday season. I would like to thank the entire team for their hard work and dedication. The company's culture and teamwork are truly remarkable and over the past decade have built Boot Barn into the national retailer it is today. I'm excited about the future growth potential of the Boot Barn brand as we target 1,200 stores across the U.S., and I believe we have the foundation and team in place to achieve this goal.

Now I would like to open the call for questions.