BellRing Brands, Inc. (BRBR) Q4 2025 Earnings Call November 18, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Jennifer Meyer - Head of Investor Relations
Darcy Davenport - CEO, President & Director
Paul Rode - CFO, Treasurer & Principal Accounting Officer

Conference Call Participants

Stephen Robert Powers - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Andrew Lazar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Megan Christine Alexander - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
David Palmer - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Brian Holland - D.A. Davidson & Co., Research Division
Thomas Palmer - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Peter Grom - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Alexia Howard - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Matthew Smith - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Yasmine Deswandhy - BofA Securities, Research Division
John Baumgartner - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Jon Andersen - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Jacob Henry - TD Cowen, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the BellRing Brands Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jennifer Meyer. Please go ahead.

Jennifer Meyer
Head of Investor Relations

Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for BellRing Brands Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2025 Earnings Call. With me today are Darcy Davenport, our President and CEO; and Paul Rode, our CFO. Darcy and Paul will begin with prepared remarks, and afterwards, we'll have a brief question-and-answer session. The press release and supplemental slide presentation that support these remarks are posted on our website in both the Investor Relations and the SEC Filings sections at bellring.com.

In addition, the release and slides are available on the SEC's website. Before we continue, I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that should be carefully considered by investors as actual results could differ materially from these statements. These forward-looking statements are current as of the date of this call, and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.

As a reminder, this call is being recorded, and an audio replay will be available on our website. And finally, this call will discuss certain non-GAAP measures. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the nearest GAAP measure, see our press release issued yesterday and posted on our website.

With that, I will turn the call over to Darcy.

Darcy Davenport
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Jennifer, and thank you all for joining this morning. Fiscal year '25 was a strong year for BellRing Brands. Net sales grew 16% and adjusted EBITDA margin reached 20.8%. We launched our first media campaign since '21, delivering compelling returns, expanded distribution while elevating retailer partnerships and accelerated our multiyear innovation strategy. We also advanced our savings program, enhancing flexibility to reinvest in future growth.

Our strong track record of cash generation continued this year, and we meaningfully stepped up our share repurchases, buying approximately 7% of our shares outstanding. We expect another successful year in fiscal '26 with a softer Q1 followed by a stronger balance of the year. Paul and I will provide additional detail on our guidance and quarterly cadence. Turning to the fourth quarter. The ready-to-drink shake category grew 15%, while Premier shake consumption grew 20%, driven by incremental promotion events.

Premier continues to have category-leading metrics, including the #1 household penetration and the category's highest repeat rate. Notably, both household penetration and buy rate increased during the quarter, reinforcing the brand's unmatched strength and consumer loyalty. Now turning to the category. RTD shakes are one of the fastest-growing CPG categories, fueled by consumer health and wellness trends, functional beverage preferences and GLP-1 usage. Household penetration of 54% highlights a long runway for growth as it trails mature CPG categories, which are often at 80% to 90%.

Retailers are leaning into this opportunity, increasing category space, testing higher traffic aisle locations and expanding display space to capture growing consumer demand. The success of this category, which has doubled in retail sales since 2019 to $8.7 billion has naturally attracted competition. Currently, the 2 leaders, including Premier Protein, have approximately 50% market share. The other participants include newer insurgent and crossover brands and some declining legacy brands.

Of note, legacy brands, which collectively represent approximately 30% of the category, have been meaningful share donors for several years now. Over time, we expect retailers to consolidate the shelf behind a handful of the best-performing brands and move them to more heavily trafficked aisles. We believe that mainstream appeal, high repeat rates and execution capabilities will determine the long-term winners. Premier Protein is well positioned to benefit from these developments and continue to lead the category. Over the next few years, we expect RTD shake category dollar growth to be high-single to low-double-digit, with volume the primary driver.

In late '25, a major club retailer significantly expanded their RTD assortment. While we do not know for certainty, we assumed the expanded assortment continues through fiscal '26. We expect pricing benefits to subside and promotional spending to slightly increase as new brands work to establish themselves in the market. These near-term dynamics lead us to expect category growth in the high single digits for '26. In the medium-to-long-term, we expect more marketing spending, expanded shelf space, innovation and the mainstreaming and affordability of GLP-1s to drive higher household penetration and category growth.

We are confident in our continued strength of the category. Premier's deep category knowledge, strong brand equity, scalable manufacturing network and robust retailer relationships give us confidence that we will continue to be the category leader and capture meaningful share of long-term growth. I'll now turn to our long-term targets. BellRing began its journey as a public company 6 years ago with $850 million in revenue. Our total revenue base is now $2.3 billion, and our Premier Protein shake revenue has tripled.

Since IPO, we have delivered a net sales CAGR of 18%, significantly ahead of our long-term revenue growth projection of 10% to 12% shared at the time of our listing. There are multiple ways to achieve strong growth in our business. However, it becomes more difficult to grow at double-digit rates of a larger revenue base. And in the near term, we are expecting a more competitive environment. As a result, we are updating our long-term revenue growth algorithm from low double digits to high single digits, specifically 7% to 9%, with Premier Protein driving our growth.

This assumes that Premier Protein, the #1 market share brand will continue to grow relatively in line with the RTD category, while Dymatize slightly weighs down our growth rate. We are maintaining our adjusted EBITDA margin algorithm of 18% to 20%, which embeds higher levels of brand investment enabled by our cost savings agenda. These investments are designed to reinforce our brand strength and position us for sustained profitable growth over the long term. Our updated revenue growth algorithm is healthy. And together with attractive margins and our asset-light model, we expect to continue to generate strong cash flow and create significant value for our shareholders.

Turning to our outlook for '26. Our '26 net sales guidance is a range of 4% to 8% growth with adjusted EBITDA margins of 18%. At the midpoint, sales for the year are expected to be modestly below our long-term algorithm because of the softer first quarter driven by specific items and near-term competitive dynamics. We expect performance to strengthen with the remainder of the year at the top end of our algorithm. Adjusted EBITDA margin is expected to be at the lower end of our range, primarily due to significant commodity inflation and tariffs, along with the lagged revenue impact of increased brand investments.

For Q1, we expect flat consumption for premier RTD shakes with October and November lapping the toughest club channel comparisons, including a nonrecurring promotion. For context, we are lapping 23% consumption growth in the first quarter of '25, which included very strong club consumption with the smallest number of new brand entrants in an incremental promotion. Q1 net sales largely follows consumption with some additional timing-related headwinds impacting sales, resulting in a roughly 5% decrease in net sales.

Paul will provide more detail later. We expect consumption along with net sales to accelerate starting in mid-December. As we move through the year, our FDM merchandising initiatives, advertising and innovation become more meaningful contributors to our growth and club comparisons ease as we lap expanded assortment. Now I'll provide additional details on our operating plans for '26.

Our priorities for this year include: one, continuing to grow our distribution both in and out of aisle; two, increase advertising investment while elevating its impact; and three, launch innovation that provides consumer excitement, adds occasions and drives trial. Distribution, both in and out of the aisle is a major opportunity. Starting with club, we intend to bolster our position in club channel with new products, increased sampling and additional promotional spending. We expect our performance in club to improve as we move through the year.

Our Premier shake TDP increases driven primarily in mass, food, drug and e-commerce channels grew by more than 20% in '25, and we have strong plans to expand at similar rates in '26. As I mentioned last quarter, we have partnered with a new broker to significantly expand store level coverage and launched an internal retail sales team focused on securing in-store displays, especially singles and entry price point multipacks.

In late Q1, we will launch a partnership with a major mass retailer that includes placements across pharmacy and grocery aisles plus extensive displays and end caps. This program will also include the first launch of new shake innovation targeting incremental occasions, which I'll discuss later in my remarks. Our second priority is advertising. We saw a strong return on investment in fiscal '25 and decided to further invest and elevate our creative in '26. Premier has the highest unaided brand awareness in the category, though there remains significant opportunity for expansion. We have strengthened our agency roster and we'll be launching a new creative campaign designed to drive household penetration, strengthen emotional connections and bring fresh energy and relevance to the brand. The campaign kicks off in late December and includes national TV and strong digital components.

Turning to innovation. In fiscal '25, we conducted a comprehensive demand study and incorporated the results into our multiyear innovation strategy. The study validated our product focus for '26 and identified several white space opportunities, some of which that we have accelerated launching in late '26 and early '27. Specifically, in '26, we are intensifying our focus on innovation across flavors, consumer segments and occasions.

In June of '25, we launched almond milkshakes, our first non-dairy protein offering, with the strategy of bringing new consumers into our brand. Although early, it is already the #2 turning 4 count in the non-dairy RTD set.

We are seeing strong incrementality with nearly half of the buyers new to the brand. Almond milkshakes are expanding distribution throughout '26 and supported by advertising. About a year ago, we launched our indulgent line with the goal of driving incremental occasions, it worked. In '26, we will build on that success as well as the success of our Café Latte core shake flavor with our new Coffeehouse or proffee shake line. Each shake provides 30 grams of protein and the caffeine equivalent of 1 cup of coffee, meeting the protein and energy consumer need, which is incremental to our core baseline.

It will be offered in Carmel Macchiato and Mocha targeting a sweeter taste palate. Coffeehouse launches in mid-December in both mass and e-commerce channels. The launch will be fully supported with paid media influencer partnerships and in-store signage and sampling. And lastly, Premier is known for its flavor innovation, and we will continue to bring flavor excitement to category throughout the year.

In closing, Premier has a history of strong growth and is the #1 brand in one of the fastest-growing categories in retail. The power of the brand is evident in our record high household penetration and repeat rates. Our first-mover advantage lies in being a scaled pure-play company with attractive margins and a deep category expertise. Retailers see the category's potential, and they are partnering with Premier as they develop their growth plans.

Q1 has some unique dynamics that are causing near-term challenges, but growth in the balance of the year is strong. The brand and business fundamentals are robust, and I have confidence in delivering the year. We are investing in our brands, sharpening our execution and innovation plans and driving our sales -- our savings agenda to enable our next phase of growth. I remain confident in our future and our ability to create sustained long-term value for shareholders.

Thank you for your interest in the company. I will now turn the call over to Paul.

Paul Rode
CFO, Treasurer & Principal Accounting Officer

Thanks, Darcy, good morning, everyone. Fiscal '25 was a year of strong performance for BellRing with net sales growth of 16%, adjusted EBITDA of $482 million and an adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.8%. Our business generated $261 million in cash flow from operations, and we ended the year at net leverage ratio of 2.1x. Our strong balance sheet enabled us to repurchase 9 million shares or $473 million in total or approximately 7% of shares outstanding. We've continued to repurchase shares in October with $40 million repurchased to date in the first quarter.

In the fourth quarter, net sales were ahead of our expectations at $648 million, up 17% over the prior year. We delivered adjusted EBITDA of $117 million at a margin of 18.1%. Premier Protein net sales grew 15% and were in line with our expectations with strong volume growth for our RTD shakes and putters. RTD shake sales grew 14%, driven by volume growth from incremental promotional events and distribution gains offset partially by unfavorable price mix. As expected, Premier shake dollar consumption was up 20% and outpaced revenue growth.

This difference was driven by expected changes in trade inventory, primarily the previously noted e-commerce fee load as well as the pricing impact from our incremental promotional events, which had an outsized impact to our net sales compared to consumption at retail prices. Dymatize net sales growth of 33% was well ahead of our expectations, driven by strong volumes. International benefited from strong consumption and a volume pull forward ahead of our late Q1 price increase with the latter and expected headwind to Q1 growth.

Adjusted gross profit, which excludes mark-to-market adjustments on commodity hedges, was $192 million and declined 4% from prior year. Adjusted gross profit margin of 29.7% decreased 620 basis points. The decline was driven by mid-single-digit input cost inflation, increased promotional activity and onetime packaging redesign cost. Protein costs stepped up in the quarter across both powders and shakes, and we expect these headwinds, most notably on powders to continue into fiscal '26.

SG&A expenses were $81 million and delivered significant leverage at 12.5% of sales versus 16% of sales in the prior year quarter. The reduction in expenses was driven by lower marketing and advertising expenses as expected as we lapped a period of heavier media and [indiscernible] testing.

I'd now like to discuss our long-term targets and capital allocation priorities, followed by our 2026 financial guidance. As Darcy discussed in her remarks, we now target long-term annual net sales growth of 7% to 9%. We expect our business to maintain strong profitability and are reiterating our long-term adjusted EBITDA margin algorithm of 18% to 20%. In 2023 through 2025, we exceeded our adjusted EBITDA margin algorithm. That performance reflected strong sales growth with favorable pricing and a more constructive commodity cost environment prior to the second half of fiscal 2021. Advertising spend as a percentage of net sales was also relatively low at approximately 3% given past supply constraints.

Looking ahead, our adjusted EBITDA margin algorithm reflects a healthier level of Premier brand support with total company advertising investment increasing to 4% to 5% of net sales and promotional spending at competitive levels. Our adjusted EBITDA margin algorithm also now incorporates the impact of tariffs. As previously communicated, tariffs will begin to impact our P&L starting in fiscal '26. While we have mitigated much of our tariff exposure, we do expect an ongoing annualized impact to our margins of approximately 120 basis points.

We continue to evaluate ways to further mitigate these impacts. To bolster our margin target, we have accelerated cost savings initiatives across our organization. The primary areas of savings involve more efficiently utilizing our co-manufacturing, warehousing and transportation networks as well as procurement savings from ingredients and packaging.

Longer term, our cost savings efforts, normalization of record highway protein costs in 2026 and modest SG&A leverage are expected to be supportive of improvement in our EBITDA margins. Our disciplined capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. We will first invest in growth initiatives, including innovation, marketing and systems and process capabilities. Second, we expect to remain asset light with low capital expenditures. After investing in our business, we expect to be aggressive and opportunistically repurchasing our shares with M&A being a longer-term priority.

Turning to our fiscal '26 outlook. We expect net sales of $2.41 billion to $2.49 billion. This represents 4% to 8% growth. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be $425 million to $455 million with a margin of 18%. From a brand perspective, we expect high single-digit sales growth from Premier Protein at the midpoint. Premier's volume growth is expected to be driven by continued category tailwinds, distribution gains, including innovation and brand investments.

Volume performance is expected to be partially offset by low single-digit headwind from promotional investments as Darcy mentioned in her remarks. We expect high single-digit sales declines for the rest of the portfolio. For Dymatize, we're executing a price increase beginning in late Q1 to offset meaningful Whey protein inflation and have prudently modeled in elasticities. Additionally, we are reducing brand investment as we navigate high protein costs and the brand has a difficult sales comparison in Q4.

Specific to Q1, total net sales are expected to be down approximately 5% of both Premier and Dymatize declining largely in line with our overall decrease. Consumption growth for Premier Protein shakes is expected to be flat. In Club, Q1 is our toughest comparison of the year where we lapped a period with fewer new entrants and chose not to repeat promotions for Premier and Dymatize. Additionally, Dymatize had a strong fourth quarter and benefited from a sales pull forward from Q1 of approximately $8 million, mostly related to shipments ahead of our late Q1 price increase. Together, the non-repeating promotions and sales pull forward are a 4-percentage-point headwind to our first quarter growth.

As we move into Q2, we expect an acceleration in both consumption and net sales with the balance of the year sales to grow at the high end of the algorithm at the midpoint of our guidance. This is driven by Premier, which we expect to outpace overall company growth for the balance of the year, as a robust merchandising programs in the FDM channel phase-in for Q2 and beyond and Club comparables ease.

Moving to fiscal 2026 adjusted EBITDA. We expect adjusted EBITDA margins to decline 280 basis points at the midpoint with lower adjusted gross margins, the primary driver. Adjusted gross margins are expected to be pressured by significant input cost inflation, particularly whey protein, the primary input costs for our powders, the introduction of tariff cost and promotional investment with margin pressure primarily in the first half of the year. Tariffs are expected to have an unfavorable impact of 80 basis points on our gross margins, net of mitigation and the impact of timing.

The remaining EBITDA margin impact is primarily due to increased advertising, which is partially offset by SG&A leverage. Advertising as a percentage of sales is expected to be approximately 4%, with the largest year-over-year dollar increases in Q2 and Q3. We expect Q1 adjusted EBITDA dollars to be below prior year levels with a margin of approximately 16% to midpoint, primarily driven by lower sales and gross margins.

In Q2, adjusted EBITDA dollars are expected to improve sequentially, with margin rate approximately 100 basis points lower sequentially due to a combination of higher sales, inclusive of Dymatize pricing, continued high commodity inflation and the timing of advertising support. We anticipate adjusted EBITDA growth in the second half due to higher sales growth, easing commodity inflation and higher cost savings.

In closing, fiscal '25 was a strong year, highlighted by robust top line growth and strong profitability. We feel confident in our plans and ability to deliver our 2026 guidance and long-term outlook. Premier is the #1 shake brand with durable competitive advantages in an attractive category, and we expect the investments we are making this year to bolster our long-term position.

Finally, our cash-generative business and strong balance sheet enable us to fund our growth plans while also opportunistically repurchasing shares.

I will now turn it over to the operator for questions.