Dutch Bros Inc. (BROS) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 5, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Neil Patel
Christine Barone - CEO, President & Director
Joshua Guenser - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Hyun Jin Cho - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Dennis Geiger - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Andrew Barish - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Andrew Charles - TD Cowen, Research Division
Sara Senatore - BofA Securities, Research Division
David Tarantino - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Brian Harbour - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Sharon Zackfia - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
John Ivankoe - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Gregory Francfort - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jeffrey Farmer - Gordon Haskett Research Advisors
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Logan Reich - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Nerses Setyan - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Christopher O'Cull - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Dutch Bros Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. This conference call and webcast is being recorded today. November 5, 2025, at 5 p.m. Eastern Time and will be available for replay shortly after it has concluded. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to Neil Patel, Dutch Bros Senior Manager, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Neil Patel

Good afternoon, and welcome. I'm joined by Christine Barone, CEO and President; and Josh Guenser, CFO. We issued our earnings press release for the quarter ended September 30, 2025, after the market closed today. The earnings press release, along with a supplemental information deck have been posted to our Investor Relations website at investors.dutchbros.com.

Please be aware that all statements in our prepared remarks and in response to your questions, other than those of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially. They are qualified by the cautionary statements in our earnings press release and the risk factors in our latest SEC filings, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

We will also reference non-GAAP financial measures on today's call. As a reminder, non-GAAP measures are neither substitutes for nor superior to measures that are prepared under GAAP. Please review the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP results in our earnings press release.

Before I pass it off, I'd like to take a moment to acknowledge Paddy Warren, our former Senior Director of Investor Relations and Capital Markets, who has made a significant impact on Dutch Bros since the IPO. We are grateful for his contributions and look forward to continuing the dialogue with many of you at upcoming investor-focused events.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Christine.

Christine Barone
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Neil, and good afternoon, everyone. Dutch Bros continues to exceed expectations, driven by the passion our Broistas bring to our shops every day and a focused set of transaction-driving initiatives that provide multiyear growth visibility. Our differentiated culture, our long-term shop growth model and our superior 4-wall economics reinforce that Dutch Bros is in a category of its own. Our third quarter results reaffirm the strength of our differentiated strategy, one that continues to fuel our momentum and unlock meaningful long-term value creation. The road ahead is both exciting and full of opportunity, and we are just getting started.

In Q3, we delivered revenue growth of 25%, system same-shop sales growth of 5.7% and company-operated same-shop sales growth of 7.4%, reflecting the strength of our strategic focus and continued customer demand. Our transaction-driving initiatives continue to demonstrate outstanding results, with growth across all dayparts.

System transaction growth was 4.7% and company-operated transaction growth was 6.8% in the quarter. Q3 marked our fifth consecutive quarter of transaction growth, making us a clear outlier in the current environment and putting Dutch Bros in a category of its own. This performance underscores our ability to drive durable growth through a focused set of idiosyncratic transaction drivers.

New shop productivity remains elevated with system-wide AUVs at record highs. We continue to see consistently long lines and strong customer demand as we expand into the Midwest and Southeast. These results underscore the broad appeal and portability of our brand across diverse geographies. Our long-term system shop opening cadence remains firmly on track and we remain highly confident in our goal of 2,029 shops in 2029. We've successfully expanded into six continuous new states this year, including five in the third quarter, bringing our total presence to 24 states.

I'm very excited to share that our shop opening cadence is expected to accelerate heading into next year, with approximately 175 new system shops projected to open in 2026. We continue to step forward in our growth journey, reflecting the strength of our pipeline, our confidence in our 4-wall model, our continued performance of shops in new markets and an annual growth rate consistent with our mid-teens new shop target. We've also made continued investments in people, tools and processes and market planning over the last 24 months. These investments enhance our ability to execute with discipline and transition us to a place of accelerating our pipeline.

Our pipeline, which has now reached record levels, has approved shops at a pace of 30-plus potential sites per month over the last 6 months as the investments in our real estate team and strong AUVs continue to reinforce our confidence in reaching our goal of 2,029 shops in 2029. Momentum is continuing to build, and I've never been more confident in our ability to execute on our ambitious growth plans.

Our Q3 results set a strong tone for the year and the strength has continued through October. We are raising our full year guidance for total revenues and same-shop sales growth, reflecting the confidence in the long-term durability of our model and the effectiveness of our transaction-driving initiatives. Josh will share more details shortly.

Let's begin today's business update by talking about what differentiates our brand. Our culture and our baristas are the heartbeat of our brand. It's something that simply cannot be replicated. It is not just what we do, but how we do it that sets us apart. From the moment the customer pulls into our drive-thru, they experience energy, authenticity and a genuine sense of belonging. We are in the business of making people feel seen, heard and appreciated. Our baristas create a high-energy welcoming environment that turns a stop at a drive-thru into a memorable moment. Our service model is built around authentic interactions and fostering real relationships. This deep emotional connection keeps our customers coming back day after day.

We have a simple but very powerful mission. It is to be a fun loving, mind-blowing company that makes a massive difference one cup at a time. During every interaction, our baristas have an opportunity to brighten someone's day by living our core values of radiate kindness, get up early, stay up late and change the world. Our drive-thru model is purpose-built to deliver an exceptional experience that balances the interplay of speed, quality and service. This one-of-a-kind approach allows us to serve high quality, handcrafted, customized beverages with remarkable efficiency and consistency without compromising on our customer experience. Since 1992, we've been hand pulling espresso shots, crafting beverages and serving love with precision and care.

Our ability to offer extensive customization is unmatched, empowering customers to create drinks that are uniquely theirs, turning every drive-thru interaction into a moment of powerful emotional connection. This level of customization, paired with our high energy service model continues to resonate with our customers. It is about the connection, the excitement and the consistency of our experience that keeps the Dutch Bros customer emotional connection so powerful.

And our customization-forward approach is improving with our focus on throughput. The sequential transaction growth we saw in Q3 showed clear progress on this initiative as we begin translating our efforts into results. Our training programs for shop leadership are driving smarter labor deployment decisions across production zones and dayparts, improving quality and elevating the customer experience through consistency. We are beginning to see a shift in peak demand patterns, driven by our transaction-driving initiatives. With improved labor deployment, we are now better positioned to meet this evolving demand.

Enhanced shop dashboards are empowering shop leaders to make better deployment decisions during peak and off-peak hours. And as a result, we're gaining better traction across order taking, order making and order handoffs, all while delivering industry-leading customer service.

Let me take a moment to highlight how we ensure a consistent customer experience. Before Broistas ever make any beverage, they're immersed in our purpose. They learn what makes Dutch Bros so unique. It's the connection, service and energy. Only then do they begin our training, mastering not only the beverage-making process, but learning every role in the shop. We've built a shop environment that is electric, fun and unmistakably Dutch. It's this energetic environment that fuels a positive Broista experience which in turn drives a consistent differentiated experience for every customer.

Our company-operated model provides a clear path for growth, whether it's through the operator pathway or becoming a leader for our MOB training teams. Today, we have over 475 operators in the pipeline, with an average tenure of approximately 7.5 years. It's this clear pathway that allows us to build depth and experience and to scale our culture effectively, and it's working. In the 2025 InTouch Insight's QSR drive-thru report, we ranked #1 in order accuracy, satisfaction and beverage quality across beverage players. Dutch Bros also earned the top spot in Forbes 2026 Best Customer Service list in the beverage category within restaurants. That is the power of investing in our people, and the Dutch Bros' difference.

We're thoughtfully expanding our beverage-first concept through our food program, which has evolved from a pilot into a broader rollout as we close out 2025 and head into 2026. Our food program rollout is designed to strengthen our beverage offering by driving breakfast and morning daypart occasions, a time of the day where we have tremendous opportunity. As we expand the food program throughout 2026, we're aiming to be a one-stop shop during the morning daypart.

We continue to see both ticket and transaction lift from our food program, which expanded to approximately 160 shops by the end of Q3. We are regularly measuring customer feedback KPIs such as quality, likelihood to recommend and value and we are very pleased with the results, which have remained consistent or improved with each successive phase of the rollout. Looking forward, our 2026 rollout cadence will follow a strategic and methodical approach, with plans to complete the rollout by the end of the year.

Due to shop layout constraints, we expect that approximately 25% of our 2025 year-end shop count may not be able to accommodate hot food. However, that percentage will decline over time as our new shops are being built to accommodate hot food. Our strategic push into breakfast in the morning daypart through our focused food rollout only strengthens the Dutch Bros model, making it even more compelling. We have built a strong and differentiated digital presence, powered by our initiatives that are continuing to translate to transaction strength.

Our enhanced paid advertising strategy to build brand awareness continues to deliver impressive results across our shop base, especially in our newer markets and vintages. These efforts are fueling our transaction momentum, and we expect this trend to continue as we pursue our TAM in parallel with strategic paid media investments. We believe there is a sizable room for aided and unaided awareness to grow long term, and we are at the early innings of our momentum.

Order Ahead is continuing to gain traction and our investments are making accessing Dutch Bros seamless across multiple touch points. We're adding meaningful sophistication to our analytics engine, setting Dutch Bros apart even at this early stage. At the end of Q3, our Order Ahead mix reached 13% with some new markets mixing at nearly double the system average. This growth highlights the natural strength of our program and the enthusiasm our customers have for Dutch Bros. To build on this momentum, we recently enhanced the user experience by introducing a more precise order pickup time feature, which has already led to improvements in order readiness and an increase in scheduled orders.

The increasing Order Ahead mix has also created a powerful on-ramp for our Dutch Rewards program. This program continues to remain a key engine for driving transaction growth over the long term. In Q3, approximately 72% of system transactions were attributed to Dutch Rewards, marking a 5-point improvement year-over-year. With Order Ahead feeding into this ecosystem, we're now focused on unlocking the full potential of segmentation, deepening engagement and driving transaction growth by confidently reaching the right customer at the right time.

Notably, in Q3, Dutch Rewards contributed to transaction growth with us running almost exclusively segmented offers, further underscoring the organic strength behind our loyalty platform and the ability to manage discounts strategically year-over-year. Even more encouraging is the momentum we're seeing from younger cohorts within Dutch Rewards, highlighting the strength and long-term potential of our loyalty program. In addition to a strong digital presence, we have a differentiated innovation platform.

Since 1992, our commitment to beverage innovation has been a cornerstone of our success. We have seen success in leading the industry in beverage trends and delivering exceptional experiences across our coffee, energy and refreshment offerings. In July, we introduced three exciting new beverages, Blue Lagoon with Strawberry Fruit, Mudslide Mocha and Strawberry Colada, demonstrating the breadth and strength of our innovation across the entire menu.

We kept the buzz going throughout the quarter with engaging brand activations, including the launch of the FUNBOY drink floatie, National Dog Day Bandanna and Car Coasters, all designed to deepen customer connection and drive brand love. In August, we brought back fall LTO offerings like the Caramel Pumpkin Brûlée and Cookie Butter Latte, alongside the Candied Cherry Rebel, reinforcing our commitment to category-wide innovation and customer relevance. This LTO lineup was our most successful fall LTO launch to date.

At Dutch Bros, innovation goes far beyond beverages. Our value proposition is about the experience, the connection and the energy our customers feel every time they visit. We pioneered the drive-thru innovation platform, and these limited time offerings provide that unforgettable moment. In addition to our differentiated innovation engine and robust digital presence, we've reached an incredible and advantageous scale. Just 4 years ago, we celebrated our 500th shop opening in Texas during the year of our IPO. This year, we surpassed 1,000 shops and we're well on our way to doubling that as part of our multiyear journey to reach 2,029 shops in 2029.

Beyond shop growth, we've successfully scaled system-wide AUVs, which are at record levels and significantly improved adjusted EBITDA, clear indicators of the durability of the Dutch Bros brand. We've also assembled a management team with experience at scale, positioning us to execute on our rapid growth ambitions with confidence.

Our team brings depth, enabling us to successfully make agile strategic decisions that support our long-term vision. We are investing in advanced analytics, tools and processes to maintain differentiated momentum as we scale, laying the foundation for disciplined, self-funded growth.

In closing, the momentum in our business remains strong, and we are just getting started. We're in the early innings of a multiyear journey, and our focused strategy is clear and working. We are built around culture. It's the engine of our differentiated customer experience. Our Broistas bring this culture, energy and connection to life every single day, delivering magic at the window that continues to connect deeply with our customers. We are focused on delighting our customers and growing sales and it's paying off. Our multiyear transaction-driving initiatives continue to resonate, marking our fifth consecutive quarter of transaction growth.

We have a differentiated innovation engine and strong digital presence that isn't easily replicated. From high-velocity LTOs to the virality of our product in merch drops, we're delivering a best-in-class experience that is setting us apart and positioning us to naturally take share. We are on track to have 2,029 shops in 2029. Our AUVs are at record levels, highlighting the portability of our brand. Our long-term 4-pronged strategy is simple and powerful; grow our people, grow our shop base, grow our transactions and grow our margins. We are playing the long game, and we're executing. We are on the offensive and our efforts are positioning us to win.

With that, I will turn it to Josh, who will discuss our financial results.

Joshua Guenser
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Christine. I'll provide a recap of our third quarter results, along with an updated outlook for 2025. Our third quarter performance built on the strong momentum from Q2 and reinforced that a differentiated model is resonating with customers. With our digital presence and our other transaction-driving initiatives still in the early stages, we remain confident in the long-term growth potential of our business.

Third quarter revenue was $424 million, an increase of 25% or $85 million over the third quarter of last year. System same-shop sales growth was 5.7%, driven by an exceptional 4.7% transaction growth. We saw strength across our transaction-driving initiatives throughout the quarter. particularly Order Ahead and Dutch Rewards, which contributed to the Q3 momentum. With Q4 off to a great start, we are raising our full year system same-shop sales growth guidance to approximately 5%. This implies approximately 3% to 4% system same-shop sales growth in the fourth quarter, which includes the continued momentum we have seen in October, the early positive impact we are seeing from shops that have the new hot food program, a full quarter lap of Order Ahead and the impact of cycling a strong Q4 from last year.

We remain excited about the opportunity with food. Early shop results suggest that we could expect an approximate 4% comp lift in shops that have food, with about 1/4 of that coming from transaction growth. We plan to continue rolling this out to shops that can support hot food throughout 2026. So we would expect that lift to be phased in throughout the year.

During the quarter, we opened 38 new shops, bringing our total system shop count to 1,081 shops. In Q3, a substantial portion of our openings occurred later in the quarter, and we anticipate a similar situation in Q4. Any new openings below 160 in 2025 are expected to be incremental to our 2026 target of approximately 175 system shops. As Christine mentioned, our development pipeline is at record levels. And the pace at which we are adding to our pipeline provides strong visibility on our path towards 2,029 shops in 2029.

In the quarter, adjusted EBITDA was $78 million, an increase of 22% or $14 million over the third quarter of last year.

Switching to our company-operated shops. Revenue in Q3 was $393 million, an increase of 27% or $85 million over the third quarter of last year. Company-operated same-shop sales growth was an outstanding 7.4% with 6.8% coming from transaction growth. Company-operated shop contribution was $109 million, an increase of 20% or $18 million year-over-year. Company-operated shop contribution margin was 27.8%.

Beverage, food and packaging costs were 25.9% of company-operated shop revenue, which is 60 basis points unfavorable year-over-year, driven primarily by higher coffee costs. We continue to expect the impact of coffee costs to accelerate into Q4 and as of now anticipate that coffee costs may remain elevated into 2026. We would also expect elevated costs associated with our broader hot food rollout to begin in Q4 of 2025.

Labor costs were 27.5% of company-operated shop revenue, which is 10 basis points favorable year-over-year, primarily driven by sales leverage and partially offset by the impact of labor investments made earlier in the year to support our long-term growth. Looking into Q4, we are anticipating the quarter to be impacted by approximately 50 basis points from regulatory changes, resulting in higher employer payroll taxes in the state of California.

Occupancy and other costs were 17% of company-operated shop revenue, which is 60 basis points unfavorable year-over-year, driven largely from the impact of occupancy rates from new shops as we have made great progress in shifting our portfolio to more capital-efficient, build-to-suit lease arrangements. We expect this impact to continue in Q4 and into 2026 as we maintain this momentum.

Preopening expenses were 1.8% of company-operated shop revenue, which is 60 basis points unfavorable year-over-year, driven by the proportion of shops in newer markets and the associated cost of sending our training teams to support these openings. Given our planned openings for Q4, we would expect preopening expenses on a per shop basis to remain relatively consistent with what we experienced in Q3.

Moving down the P&L. Adjusted SG&A was $58 million or 13.6% of total revenue. We continue to be thoughtful about investments we make in SG&A while driving consistent leverage as we grow the top line. Given the continued momentum here, we now expect approximately 110 basis points of leverage on adjusted SG&A for 2025. For the quarter, we delivered $0.19 of adjusted EPS, up from $0.16 or 19% from Q3 of last year.

Let me now provide an update on our balance sheet, cash flow and liquidity. As of September 30, we have approximately $706 million in total liquidity. This liquidity includes $267 million in cash and cash equivalents and approximately $440 million in our undrawn revolver. During the quarter, our net cash position sequentially increased by approximately $14 million from Q2, driven by strong cash flow from operations.

In Q3, our average CapEx per shop was $1.4 million, clearly demonstrating our ability to transition our portfolio to more capital-efficient, build-to-suit lease arrangements. This gives us strong visibility and confidence into positive cash flow generation, reinforcing the scale and strength of our long-term financial model.

Now let me provide an update on our 2025 guidance. In light of our strong performance throughout the third quarter and into October, we are raising our full year guidance for total revenues and system same-shop sales growth. Total revenues are now projected to be between $1.61 billion and $1.615 billion. System same-shop sales growth is now expected to be approximately 5%. Adjusted EBITDA remains in the range of $285 million to $290 million.

Total system shop openings in 2025 are targeted to be 160. Any new shop openings below 160 in 2025 are expected to be incremental to our 2026 target of approximately 175 shops, reflecting confidence in our shop growth trajectory.

Capital expenditures remain in the range of $240 million to $260 million. We are energized by the strength of our business. Our people, our resilient financial model and our differentiated transaction-driving initiatives place us in a category of our own. Our high-growth, multiyear trajectory is exceptionally well positioned to deliver consistent, dependable results supported by record high AUVs and a superior 4-wall model.

Thank you, everyone. We will now take your questions. Operator, please open the lines.