Burlington Stores, Inc. (BURL) Q3 2026 Earnings Call November 25, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

David Glick - Group Senior VP of Investor Relations & Treasurer
Michael O'Sullivan - CEO & Director
Kristin Wolfe - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Irwin Boruchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Lorraine Maikis - BofA Securities, Research Division
John Kernan - TD Cowen, Research Division
Brooke Roach - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Alexandra Straton - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Mark Altschwager - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, everyone, and welcome to Burlington Stores, Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Webcast. Please note that this call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I'd now like to hand the call over to Mr. David Glick, Group Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

David Glick
Group Senior VP of Investor Relations & Treasurer

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate everyone's participation in today's conference call to discuss Burlington's fiscal 2025 third quarter operating results. Our presenters today are Michael O'Sullivan, our Chief Executive Officer; and Kristin Wolfe, our EVP and Chief Financial Officer.

Before I turn the call over to Michael, I would like to inform listeners that this call may not be transcribed, recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission. A replay of the call will be available until December 2, 2025. We take no responsibility for inaccuracies that may appear in transcripts of this call by third parties. Our remarks and the Q&A that follows are copyrighted today by Burlington Stores.

Remarks made on this call concerning future expectations, events, strategies, objectives, trends or projected financial results are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those that are projected in such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include those that are described in the company's 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference. Please note that the financial results and expectations we discuss today are on a continuing operations basis. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures we discuss today to GAAP measures are included in today's press release.

As a reminder, as indicated in this morning's press release, all profitability metrics discussed on this call exclude costs associated with bankruptcy acquired leases. These pretax costs amounted to $11 million and $0 million, respectively, during the fiscal third quarters of 2025 and 2024 and $28 million and $9 million, respectively, for the first 9 months of 2025 and 2024.

Now here's Michael.

Michael O'Sullivan
CEO & Director

Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. I would like to cover 4 topics this morning. Firstly, I will discuss our third quarter results. Secondly, I will review our updated fourth quarter and full year guidance. Thirdly, I will provide some early thinking on the outlook for 2026. And lastly, I will comment on the progress we are making towards our longer-range financial goals. Then I will turn the call over to Kristin to provide additional details.

Okay. Let's start with our Q3 results. Total sales increased 7% in the third quarter at the high end of our guidance. This was on top of 11% sales growth last year. This means that year-to-date, total sales have increased 8% on top of 11% year-to-date growth last year. Comp store sales for the third quarter increased 1%. We started the quarter well with a strong back-to-school trend, but in September, we saw a significant drop-off in traffic to our stores, driven by warmer-than-usual weather.

As we have discussed previously, we have very strong brand equity in outerwear. Many shoppers still think of us as Burlington Coat Factory. Outerwear is a great business and a source of competitive strength. But this means that in Q3, our comp trend is very sensitive to weather, much more so than competitors. In some years, the impact is positive. In some years, it is negative. This year, it was negative. That said, in mid-October, once the weather turned cooler, our comp trend picked up to the mid-single digits. And that momentum of mid-single-digit comp growth continued through the first 3 weeks of November.

Finishing up on Q3, I would like to comment on earnings. Despite the weather-driven slowdown in our sales trend in Q3, we still delivered margin expansion that was well ahead of last year and earnings growth that significantly beat our guidance. It's worth calling out that this was despite the considerable headwind that we faced from tariffs.

Moving on to the fourth quarter. We are maintaining our previously issued comp store sales guidance of 0% to 2%. We feel good about our recent trend, but it is still early in the quarter. And in the coming weeks, we'll be up against very strong comparisons from last year. So it makes sense to remain cautious. That said, given the strong margin and expense trends that we are seeing, we are increasing our Q4 margin and EPS guidance. To be clear, we are adjusting our full year 2025 earnings guidance, passing along all of our beat to earnings in Q3 and factoring in our higher Q4 earnings outlook.

I would like to call out that we started this fiscal year with EBIT margin guidance of flat to up 30 basis points. Our updated full year 2025 guidance now calls for expansion of 60 to 70 basis points. This is despite pressure from tariffs, and it is on top of 100 basis points of margin improvement in 2024. We are excited about the progress we are making on margin expansion. I will return to this topic in a few moments when I talk about our longer-range financial goals. But first, I would like to share our initial thoughts on the outlook for 2026.

We are early in the budget process, but as a starting point, we are planning for total sales growth in the high single digits. We now expect to open 110 net new stores in 2026. This is higher than previously discussed, and it reflects the strength of our new store pipeline and the performance we are seeing from new stores. We are excited for these new store openings.

For comp sales, we are assuming growth of flat to 2% in 2026. This should sound familiar. It is our typical off-price playbook. There is significant economic uncertainty, and we do not know how this might affect our business in 2026. So we will plan our business conservatively at 0% to 2% comp sales growth and then be ready to chase if the trend is stronger. In terms of operating margin expansion, for budgeting purposes, we are assuming that at 2% comp growth, our operating margin would be flat versus this year, then 10 to 15 basis points higher for each point of comp above 2%.

Before I turn the call over to Kristin, there is one more topic that I would like to talk about. I would like to provide an update on our longer-range financial goals. As a reminder, 2 years ago, we shared our objective of getting to approximately $1.6 billion in operating income in 2028. The headline is that we feel good about the progress that we are making toward this goal. We are tracking in line with where we thought we would be at this point. We are especially pleased with the progress we have made in driving operating margin. This means that at the high end of our updated 2025 margin guidance, we will have achieved 170 basis points of the 400 basis points of opportunity that we identified 2 years ago. And of course, we will have achieved this despite the negative headwind from tariffs.

Apart from margin expansion, the other drivers of our long-range financial model are new store sales and comp store sales growth. On new store sales, we are even more bullish now about our new store opening program than we were 2 years ago. Originally, we had assumed that we would open 100 net new stores a year in the period 2024 to 2028. In fact, this year, we will open 104. And in 2026, we are now planning to open 110 net new stores. Based on our new store pipeline, there is a possibility that we could sustain or even exceed this stronger pace of new store openings.

The other major driver of our long-range model is comp sales growth. As I discussed in the context of our Q3 results, leaving weather aside, we feel good about the underlying comp trends that we are seeing. We believe that we can achieve average annual comp sales growth in the range of 4% to 5% over the remaining years of the long-range plan, in other words, between now and 2028. Of course, we recognize there are a lot of external variables that can affect comp growth. So in the nearer term, as we always do, we will plan our business conservatively and then chase.

Now I would like to turn the call over to Kristin to review our Q3 results, updated 2025 guidance and high-level outlook for 2026 in more detail. Kristin?

Kristin Wolfe
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Michael, and good morning, everyone. I will start with some additional color on Q3, then I will talk about our updated guidance. Lastly, I will comment on our initial outlook for 2026.

Starting with the third quarter, total sales grew 7%, while comp store sales increased 1%, both within our guidance range. As Michael described, our comp trend in the third quarter fell off significantly after the back-to-school period, driven by warmer weather, but then picked up to mid-single digits in mid-October. The gross margin rate for the third quarter was 44.2%, an increase of 30 basis points versus last year. This was driven by a 10 basis point increase in merchandise margin and a 20 basis point decrease in freight expenses.

Moving down the P&L. Our Q3 product sourcing costs were $214 million versus $209 million in the third quarter of last year. Product sourcing costs decreased 40 basis points compared to last year. This was primarily driven by leverage in supply chain through continued cost savings and efficiency initiatives. Adjusted SG&A costs in Q3 levered 20 basis points versus last year. This leverage was primarily achieved in store-related costs. Our store teams drove significant leverage in store payroll through numerous efficiency and productivity initiatives.

Q3 adjusted EBIT margin was 6.2%, 60 basis points higher than last year. This was well above our guidance range of down 20 basis points to flat. Our Q3 adjusted earnings per share was $1.80, which came in well above our guidance range. This represents a 16% increase versus the prior year.

At the end of the quarter, comparable store inventories were down 2% versus the end of the third quarter of 2024. Let me provide a little more context here. In Q3, we saw a significant slowdown in our comp trends, a weather-driven slowdown. But using our merchandising 2.0 tools, our planners and merchants were able to react very quickly to adjust receipts, especially in cold weather categories. So despite the slowdown, our store inventories are well balanced, current and very clean going into the fourth quarter.

Moving on to our reserve inventory. Reserve inventory was 35% of our total inventory versus 32% of our inventory last year. In dollar terms, reserve inventory was up 26% compared to last year. We are pleased with the quality of the merchandise and the values and brands that we have in reserve. And as a reminder, we use reserve inventory as ammunition to chase the sales trend. For example, our reserve includes great outerwear buys that we made earlier this year that we've been pulling out over the last few weeks to fuel the trend since the weather turned cold in mid-October.

We ended the third quarter with approximately $1.5 billion in liquidity. This consisted of $584 million in cash and $948 million in availability on our ABL. We had no outstanding borrowings on the ABL at the end of the quarter. During the third quarter, we repurchased $61 million in stock. And at the end of the quarter, we had $444 million remaining on our repurchase authorization.

In Q3, we opened 73 net new stores, bringing our store count at the end of the quarter to 1,211 stores. This included 85 new store openings, 10 relocations and 2 closings. We now expect to open 104 net new stores in fiscal 2025, up from our original estimate of 100 net new stores.

Now I will turn to our outlook for the fourth quarter and full year for fiscal 2025. We are maintaining our fourth quarter fiscal 2025 guidance for comp sales and total sales. We are guiding comparable store sales to be flat to up 2%, with total sales to increase 7% to 9% for the fourth quarter. We are raising our adjusted EBIT margin and adjusted earnings per share guidance for the fourth quarter. We now expect our adjusted EBIT margin to increase by 30 to 50 basis points. This margin outlook now translates to an adjusted earnings per share range of $4.50 to $4.70, an increase of 9% to 14% versus the fourth quarter of last year.

For full year fiscal 2025, after factoring in our actual Q3 results and our improved outlook for Q4, we expect comp store sales growth of 1% to 2%, total sales to increase approximately 8% and EBIT margins to range from an increase of 60 to 70 basis points. As Michael noted earlier, this fiscal 2025 EBIT margin guidance is 40 basis points higher than our original full year guidance at the high end, and this is despite the significant pressure from tariffs.

Finally, factoring in Q3 actuals and updated Q4 guidance, adjusted earnings per share are now expected to be in the range of $9.69 to $9.89, an increase of 16% to 18% for the full year 2025.

Finally, I would like to touch on our preliminary FY '26 outlook. We are in the early stages of the budgeting process, so this could change. But at this point, we are planning on total sales growth in the high single digits. We are assuming at least 110 net new stores, and we're planning comp store sales in the range of flat to up 2%. For operating margin, as Michael said, we are assuming that at a 2% comp growth, our operating margin will be flat to this year, and we expect leverage of 10 to 15 basis points for each additional point of comp.

And now I will turn the call back over to Michael.

Michael O'Sullivan
CEO & Director

Thank you, Kristin. Before I turn the call over to the operator for your questions, I would like to summarize a few of the key points from today's call.

Firstly, Q3 was impacted by warmer weather in September through early October. Once the weather normalized, our trend improved to mid-single-digit comp growth. And we are off to a strong start to Q4 with comps up mid-single digits for the first 3 weeks of November.

Secondly, we are pleased with our margin trends. We are updating our full year 2025 guidance to reflect the earnings beat in Q3 as well as our improved earnings outlook for Q4. At this point, we are maintaining our previously issued Q4 comp guidance of 0% to 2%.

Thirdly, we are pleased with how we are tracking towards our long-range financial goals, especially the pace of margin expansion. And within this long-range financial plan, we think there may be additional upside in terms of our new store opening program.

Now I would like to turn the call over for your questions.