Corporación América Airports S.A. (CAAP) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 24, 2025 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Patricio Esnaola - Investor Relations Manager
Martin Francisco Eurnekian - CEO & Director
Jorge Arruda - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Guilherme Mendes - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Andres Cardona - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Daniel Vielman - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to the Corporación América Airports' Third Quarter 2025 Conference Call. A slide presentation accompanies today's webcast and is available in the Investors section of the company's website.

[Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Patricio Inaki Esnaola, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Patricio.

Patricio Esnaola
Investor Relations Manager

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Speaking during today's call will be Martin Eurnekian, our Chief Executive Officer; and Jorge Arruda, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we proceed, I would like to make the following safe harbor statement. Today's call will contain forward-looking statements, and I refer you to the forward-looking statements section of our earnings release and recent filings with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect new or changed events or circumstances.

Please note that throughout this call, all references to revenues, costs, adjusted EBITDA and margin will refer to figures excluding IFRIC 12. Also, all comparisons discussed are year-over-year unless otherwise noted.

I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Martin Eurnekian.

Martin Francisco Eurnekian
CEO & Director

Thank you, Inaki. Good day, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We delivered another very strong quarter at CAAP with solid execution across the board. Passenger traffic was up more than 9%, supported by good momentum in all our markets. Italy and Armenia reached historical records, and Argentina continued to perform exceptionally well with double-digit growth in both international and domestic travel. Revenue growth once again outpaced traffic, rising 17% in the quarter.

Aeronautical revenues posted solid double-digit gains and commercial revenues were up 18%, driven by continued strength in cargo, fuel, VIP lounges and other passenger-related services. We also continue to see healthy traction in revenue per passenger, which increased nearly 7%, reflecting the ongoing success of our commercial initiatives. This strong operating performance carried into profitability metrics. Adjusted EBITDA increased 34% to $194 million, marking a new record for the company, driven mainly by Argentina, Armenia, Brazil and Italy. The margin expanded over 5 percentage points with easier comparisons also contributing to the strong results in Argentina. We also maintained a solid financial position, providing us flexibility to continue moving forward with our investment plans and long-term growth strategy.

On the investment side, the CapEx program approvals are underway in Armenia and Italy. Last week, the Italian government issued the Environmental Impact Assessment Decree, representing an important milestone in connection with the approval process of the Florence Airport master plan. We also continue advancing our inorganic expansion projects as we evaluate opportunities across our key target markets. All in all, it was another quarter of strong performance and disciplined execution. We are very proud of our team of executives.

Turning to passenger traffic on Slide 4. We delivered another quarter of healthy traffic growth across most markets. A total of 23.3 million passengers traveled across our airport network this quarter, up over 9%, supported by solid domestic and international trends. Domestic volumes increased just over 10%, driven primarily by Argentina and Brazil with additional contributions from Italy. International traffic rose 8% with growth in nearly all countries, led by strong performances in Argentina, Italy and Brazil.

Let me walk you through performance by country. Argentina continued to stand out with total passenger traffic up nearly 13%, marking a third quarter record. Domestic traffic grew nearly 11%, supported by sustained demand and incremental capacity, particularly from JetSmart and [indiscernible]. International traffic increased 16%, reflecting strong connectivity gains, including new and resumed routes from LATAM, GOL, Copa and JetSmart, among others. Operations were briefly disrupted by ATEPSA union strikes and adverse weather, but the overall momentum remained very solid. This strong performance continued into October with domestic and international passenger traffic increasing by 10% and 15%, respectively.

In Italy, traffic was up nearly 10%, reaching a record high. International traffic, which represents over 80% of the total, increased almost 7%, driven by strong results at [indiscernible] and Pisa. Pisa also supported domestic traffic, which rose nearly 6%. This positive trend continued into October with domestic and international passenger traffic increasing by 2% and 8%, respectively. Brazil delivered a growth of over 8% in total traffic with both domestic and international segments growing at double-digit rates, reflecting improved trends. Traffic in October remained solid, up 10% year-on-year.

Uruguay saw a 5.3% decline in traffic, affected by several days of adverse weather as well as a 6-day planned closure of the main runway to complete the installation of a new precision instrument landing system. During the quarter, Azul launched a new route between Montevideo and Campinas, which should support traffic going forward. In October, however, traffic recovered, rising 6.9% versus the same month last year. Armenia continued to perform well with traffic up just over 6%, reaching a record high. Traffic increase was supported by strong international demand and expanded connectivity from new airline entrants.

Wizz Air also established a new base at Zvartnots, adding 8 new European routes in October, further strengthening Armenia's positioning as a growing regional hub. As a result, traffic in October rose by a strong 15% against the same period last year. Lastly, Ecuador posted a slight 1% decline in total traffic, reflecting a still challenging security environment and a softer international demand. JetBlue and Avianca increased frequencies on several international routes, while domestic traffic was stable, although operations were temporarily affected by a 2-day planned runway closure in September. In October, traffic increased by 1.2% compared to the same month last year.

In summary, it was another quarter of broad-based traffic growth across most of our markets, underscoring the strength of our network and the depth of demand across our operations.

Moving on to cargo on Slide 5. We delivered another strong quarter with cargo revenues up 20% year-over-year, driven by a 23% increase in Argentina and a double-digit growth in both Brazil and Uruguay. This performance reflected improved pricing dynamics, including the new cargo business model implemented in mid-March in Argentina, which is performing as planned. Looking ahead, we will continue to build this momentum by enhancing our cargo capabilities and leveraging growth opportunities across our airports while maintaining a competitive and efficient cost structure.

I will now turn the call over to Jorge, who will review our financial results. Please go ahead.

Jorge Arruda
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Martin, and good day, everyone. Let's begin with our top line on Slide 6. Total revenues ex-IFRIC 12 increased 16.6%, nearly doubling passenger traffic growth of 9.3%. This strong performance was driven by double-digit growth in both aeronautical and commercial revenues, supported by positive contributions across all countries of operations with Argentina, Armenia, Brazil and Italy, each delivering double-digit revenue growth.

Our revenue per passenger was up 6.7%, reaching $20.2 compared with $19 in the same quarter last year. Aeronautical revenues increased 15.2%, mainly driven by a strong performance in Argentina, complemented by broad-based increases across most countries with the exceptions of Ecuador and Uruguay. Argentina was once again the key driver with aeronautical revenues up 22.1%, mainly reflecting a 15.9% increase in international traffic volumes. Strong momentum continued in Brazil and Armenia, each delivering double-digit growth, while Italy posted a 9.8% revenue increase, all consistent with passenger traffic trends.

In contrast, Uruguay and Ecuador reported slight declines in aeronautical revenues due to a lower passenger traffic resulting from scheduled runway closures related to the installation of a new install landing system in Uruguay and runway repaving works in Ecuador. Commercial revenues were up 18%, well above 9.3% increase in traffic, supported by higher contributions from cargo revenues and solid growth across VIP lounges, parking facilities, food and beverage services as well as other passenger-related services. Food-related revenues, primarily in Armenia also supported the increase. Overall, we saw solid performance across all markets.

Armenia and Argentina stood out with commercial revenues up 22% and 19%, respectively, while Italy and Brazil also delivered double-digit growth, highlighting the continued strength of our commercial portfolio and our ability to drive value beyond the core aeronautical business.

Turning to Slide 7. Total cost and expenses, excluding IFRIC 12, increased 7.9%, aligned with higher activity, but remained well below revenue growth of nearly 17%. Cost of services were up 5%, largely due to a higher concession fee aligned with revenue growth as well as higher fuel costs in Armenia, consistent with the growth in fuel revenues. This was partially offset by lower services and fees and maintenance expenses. SG&A increased 20%, mainly reflected taxes and salaries in Argentina.

In Argentina, total cost and expenses were up 3.3%, benefits from favorable comparisons as the same quarter last year had absorbed significant inflation-driven cost increases along with continued focus on cost efficiency. The comparison was further supported by the faster pace of currency devaluation relative to inflation during the quarter, which diluted peso-denominated costs when translated into U.S. dollars.

Moving on to profitability on Slide 8. Adjusted EBITDA ex-IFRIC 12 was up 34%, reaching a record of $194 million, reflecting strong performance across all countries except Uruguay with double-digit growth in Argentina, Armenia and Brazil. Argentina delivered another outstanding quarter with adjusted EBITDA up 68%, supported by the aforementioned easier comparisons, solid top line growth, strong passenger trends and continued momentum in our commercial activities. Armenia also performed very well with adjusted EBITDA up 25%, driven by higher passenger traffic and improved fuel margins.

At Brasilia Airport, adjusted EBITDA increased 19%, reflecting healthy traffic growth and strong performance across VIP lounges and cargo operations. Italy posted a 10% increase or 18% when excluding construction service at Toscana Aeroporti Costruzioni. This increase was driven by higher passenger traffic and solid growth in duty-free, VIP lounges, parking revenues. In Uruguay, results reflected temporary operational impacts with adjusted EBITDA down 11% following a 6-day planned runway closure to stall a new install landing system. Finally, Ecuador delivered a 4% increase in adjusted EBITDA, supported by stronger duty-free and retail revenues.

Overall, adjusted EBITDA margin ex-IFRIC 12 expanded 5.2 percentage points to 41.2%, driven by significant improvements in Argentina and continued operational efficiency across most markets. Notably, in Argentina, we delivered a 12% point margin expansion driven by easier comparison, strong revenue growth and effective cost controls.

Turning to Slide 9. Supported by continued strong operating and financial performance, we ended the quarter with a total liquidity position of $661 million, up 26% from the $526 million recorded at year-end 2024. Importantly, all of our operating subsidiaries generated positive year-to-date cash flow from operating activities, underscoring the strength and consistency of our cash generation across markets. Cash used in financing activities mainly reflected debt repayment in Argentina and Ecuador as well as dividends paid to noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries.

Moving on to the debt and maturity profile on Slide 10. Total debt at quarter end was $1.1 billion, while our net debt further decreased to $579 million from $718 million in December 2024. Our net leverage ratio also improved, reaching 0.9x. To wrap up, we delivered another quarter of strong results marked by strong execution and financial discipline. Our balance sheet remains robust, providing the capacity to pursue new growth opportunities, both organic and inorganic to continue creating value across our portfolio.

I will now hand the call back to Martin, who will provide closing remarks and discuss our view for the remainder of the year.

Martin Francisco Eurnekian
CEO & Director

Thank you, Jorge. Let's turn to Slide 12 to wrap up our presentation. This was another very strong quarter for CAAP, marked by solid performance across our portfolio. We delivered high profitability with further margin expansion, all while preserving a strong financial position. Overall, the quarter highlights the strength of our portfolio and the quality of our management team. We're also making good progress on initiatives that enhance the passenger experience and expand our commercial offering.

In Argentina, we inaugurated a new centralized car rental hub and the new digital mobility platform. In Brazil, the Brasilia shopping mall is on track to open in the second quarter of 2026. Armenia opened a fully redesigned duty-free store and Uruguay is moving ahead with expanding its duty-free and VIP lounge areas. Strategic priorities across our concessions continue to advance. We continue to make progress in both the AA2000 concession rebalance in Argentina as well as the approval of the CapEx program in Armenia.

In Italy, the government issued the Environmental Impact Assessment Decree last week, marking an important milestone in connection with the approval process of the Florence Airport master plan.

Turning to our inorganic expansion pipeline. We recently signed an Award Agreement for the Baghdad Airport project in Iraq, and the government process continue for the Angola tender. In Montenegro, the government's Standard Commission announced the result and ranked CAAP in second place. We continue evaluating additional opportunities across other countries. Looking ahead, we anticipate positive traffic trends to continue into the fourth quarter, though with a more moderate pace of domestic traffic growth in Argentina.

Overall, we anticipate solid results in the fourth quarter, although not benefiting from the easier comparisons that support the third quarter performance in Argentina. In summary, our third quarter performance reinforces the resilience of our business model, the quality of our assets and the strong execution by our teams across all markets.

Operator, please open the line for questions.