Calix, Inc. (CALX) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Nancy Fazioli - Vice President of Investor Relations
Michael Weening - CEO, President & Director
Cory Sindelar - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Joseph Cardoso - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Ryan Koontz - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Michael Genovese - Rosenblatt Securities Inc., Research Division
George Notter - Wolfe Research, LLC
Timothy Savageaux - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division
Scott Searle - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Christian Schwab - Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, everyone, and welcome to the Calix Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Nancy Fazioli, Vice President of Investor Relations. Nancy, please go ahead.

Nancy Fazioli
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Daryl, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our fourth quarter 2025 earnings call. Today on the call, we have President and CEO, and Michael Weening and Chief Financial Officer, Cory Sindelar. As a reminder, yesterday, after the market closed, Calix issued a news release, which was furnished on a Form 8-K, along with our stockholder letter, and was also posted in the Investor Relations section of the Calix website.

Today's conference call will be available for webcast replay in the Investor Relations section of our website. Before I turn the call over to Michael for his opening remarks, I want to remind everyone that on this call, we will refer to forward-looking statements, including all statements the company will make about its future financial and operating performance, growth strategy and market outlook, and that actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results and trends to differ materially are set forth in the fourth quarter 2025 letter to stockholders and in the annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.

Calix assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their respective dates. Also in this conference call, we will discuss both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in the fourth quarter 2025 letter to stockholders.

Unless otherwise stated, all financial information referenced in this call will be non-GAAP. With that, Michael, please go ahead.

Michael Weening
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Nancy, and good morning. We closed 2025 with the best performance in the company's history, expanding our strong foundation that we have invested 15 years building with team members, customers and partners.

Record revenue. Our sixth quarter of consecutive revenue growth while guiding higher in first quarter. Record gross margin. Our eighth quarter of consecutive margin improvement, expanding RPOs driven by excitement around our third-generation platform and continued operational discipline yielding our 11th consecutive quarter of 8-figure free cash flow and ending the year with record cash.

These results underscore the strength of our platform model as we contribute to the success of our broadband experience provider customers. We also launched the third generation of our Calix platform in December with more than 300 customers already migrated as of today, and we are working to complete all customer migrations by the end of first quarter.

This marks a significant milestone for Calix and our customers as Calix's agent workforce integrates into everything that we do, while our partnership with Google Cloud allows our platform to be deployed to any customer in the world, whether Calix hosted or as a private instance for a large customer. Last, we continued to improve the culture that supports the success of our customers every single day. As evidenced by our 44 culture and 20 innovation awards, adding 16 awards in fourth quarter alone.

Our team is particularly proud of these awards as success starts with people. The Q4 results, our strong culture and the successful launch of the third generation of our platform that adds capacity and capability for existing customers through agent workforce cloud. The opportunity in the MDU market with SmartLife and the ability to address new global markets and large customers with private clouds as our team entering 2026 very confident and our ability to continue our track record of enabling customers to simplify operations in go-to-market, innovate across residential, business, MDU and municipal segments, which enables them to grow for their members, investors and the communities they serve at a faster and faster pace.

As we exit 2025, it also marks the end of the early adopter phase of the market disruption and with demand visibility at an all-time high, our entrance into a sustained growth phase for 2026 and beyond.

Cory, over you to walk through the specifics of our Q4 performance.

Cory Sindelar
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Michael. In the fourth quarter of 2025, Calix delivered record revenue of $272 million, marking a sequential increase of 3% and a robust 32% year-over-year growth. This capped off a milestone year, which we surpassed $1 billion in annual revenue, reflecting 20% growth over 2024.

Our results were driven by continued strong demand for our platform among broadband experience provider customers, who are leveraging our appliance-based platform, cloud and managed services to attract new subscribers, minimize churn, raise NPS scores and ARPU and expand their footprints. The addition of 25 new customers this quarter further demonstrates the broad-based adoption of our solutions.

Remaining performance obligation reached a record $385 million, up 9% sequentially and 18% year-over-year. Current RPOs were also a record at $152 million, representing an 8% sequential increase and a 26% rise from the same period last year. These robust metrics underscore the visibility we have into the ongoing strength of our business model as we see more BXP customers adopt our platform, cloud and managed services, add incremental offerings and win new subscribers.

The accelerating interest in Agent Workforce Cloud is another clear indicator that the BXP-led disruption is past the elbow and we have left the early adopter phase and are now in a sustained growth phase. To that end, we have aligned our publicly disclosed financial metrics to reflect the growth and value of our model.

We have split out our clients' revenue and gross margin from our recurring software and services revenue and gross margin. Simultaneously, we have ceased providing metrics such as platform adoption and customer size that were proxies for our progress during the early adopter phase.

The combination of our customers' ongoing subscriber growth with our platform and the strength of appliances deployment resulted in another record non-GAAP gross margin of 58%, representing our eighth consecutive quarter of margin improvement.

The continued expansion is primarily due to the adoption of our platform by new broadband service providers and the success of our BXP customers. While gross margin may fluctuate quarter-to-quarter depending on customer and product mix as well as memory costs, we remain confident in our ability to drive further gross margin growth as our platform, cloud and managed services scale.

Regarding memory costs, we will remain proactive and as we did during COVID, we will partner closely with our customers to ensure continuity of supply and address any cost increases resulting from higher memory pricing.

Our balance sheet remains strong. DSO at the end of the fourth quarter was an industry-leading 35 days. Inventory turns were 3, reflecting investments to address robust demand. We generated record free cash flow for the quarter of $40 million.

We have now produced positive quarterly free cash flow for over 5 years including 11 consecutive quarters with 8-figure amounts. We ended the year with record cash and investments of $388 million, an increase of $48 million sequentially and $91 million year-over-year. This strong cash position reflects our ongoing profitability and disciplined operational execution.

Also during the fourth quarter, we deployed $17 million to purchase 300,000 shares of our common stock. As we have discussed, we have a disciplined capital allocation process and we remain a disciplined buyer of our own stock. That said, as visibility increases, our internal valuation models have moved up and this is illustrated by our fourfold increase in share buybacks from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.

Furthermore, our Board of Directors has authorized an increase of $125 million in our stock repurchase plan. Given the robust demand environment and the strong pace at which our customers are adopting our model, we expect to continue delivering sequential revenue growth, including in the first quarter, which has traditionally experienced slower growth due to seasonal trends.

Our revenue guidance for the first quarter of 2026 is between $275 million and $281 million representing a 2% increase at the midpoint over the prior quarter. This outlook reflects our confidence in the multiyear growth opportunity ahead, as more service providers recognize the value of transforming into a broadband experienced provider.

Regarding progress on BEAD, we now have a clearer view of the size and timing of the program. The available size of the opportunity for Calix is between $1 billion and $1.5 billion.

While we have already seen orders from BEAD recipients, we expect deliveries of appliances later this year and meaningfully ramping into next year and beyond, providing a tailwind to our growth.

Strategically, the BEAD awards also give insight to the practical differences between fiber-to-the-premise technology and low earth orbiting satellites. The vast majority of funds, some 85% went to fiber-based deployments but only 5% of funds went to low earth orbiting satellites. This speaks to pure physics -- this speaks to physics pure and simple.

Fiber has the highest bit rate pairing capacity, a multi-decade life cycle and the lowest cost, operating costs. In short, it is financially practical to get fiber to the premises you will. For those sites that are too far away, alternate technologies such as fixed wireless or low earth orbiting satellites are a good solution.

As such, one should quickly realize to the extent that competition exists, it exists between fixed wireless and satellite, not between fiber and anything else. For the first quarter of 2026, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to remain strong with some near-term impact due to customer mix and from overlapping cloud costs as we transition to our third-generation platform.

I would also note that while we are making this investment in running dual cloud, the transition to the third-generation platform is on track and progressing well. Regarding non-GAAP operating expenses, we expect a sequential increase in the first quarter of 2026, primarily related to accelerating the development of AI functionality and capabilities across our platform, cloud managed services.

Importantly, we expect to return to our target financial model for operating expenses by the end of 2026, positioning us for sustained long-term profitability and growth. We are entering 2026 with strong visibility and confident in our growth trajectory.

We are excited to host our Investor Day at the New York Stock Exchange on February 24, where we will share more about our strategy and long-term growth opportunities. We look forward to seeing you there. Michael, thank you.

Michael Weening
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Cory. At a time when the pace of change is accelerating at a rate that has never been seen before, we entered 2026 ready to make that pace of change our advantage and, in turn, an advantage for our customers.

We have successfully launched agent workforce and demand visibility is at an all-time high. We have executed with operational rigor to ensure that we have the financial strength to continue to invest and grow by winning new customers and helping our existing customers differentiate and dominate in the markets they serve.

Last, our team culture is ready for the opportunity that we have invested and worked so hard towards our better, better, never best cultural mantra will ensure that our internal teams make the most of AI to improve how we operate while our platform delivers incredible results for our customers. The next step in Calix' journey is here. I'm excited to lead the team as we speed our ability to transform the broadband industry and enable the success of our customers and partners. I would like to close by thanking our team, customers, partners and shareholders whose passion, grit and trust have brought us to this exciting next stage in the Calix journey. Nancy, let's open the call for questions.

Nancy Fazioli
Vice President of Investor Relations

Daryl?

