Cango Inc. (CANG) Q3 2025 Earnings Call December 1, 2025 8:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Peng Yu - CEO & Director
Yongyi Zhang - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Emerson Zhao
Pingyue Wu - Citic Securities Co., Ltd., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Cango Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note today's event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Paul Yu, CEO. Please go ahead.

Peng Yu
CEO & Director

Hello, everyone, and welcome to Cango's third quarter 2025 Earnings Call. This quarter marks the 1-year anniversary of our strategic transformation into a Bitcoin miner, an important milestone for the company. Today, I will reveal our third quarter results and share how Cango continues to create long-term value in a rapidly changing market environment.

During third quarter, we remain focused on our core mining operations further strengthening Cango's position with the skilled and operationally disciplined Bitcoin manner. This is clearly reflected in our financial performance. In the third quarter total revenue reached USD 225 million, up 60.6% sequentially. Operating income was USD 43.5 million and net income was USD 37.3 million.

Today, Cango operates a deployed hashrate of 50 exahash globally, positioning us among the leading miners worldwide. In the third quarter, we produced 1,930.8 Bitcoins, averaging 21 Bitcoins per day, up 37.5% and in total output and 36% in daily production compared with the second quarter 2025. Leveraging our asset-light model we've built a competitive global footprint across the Americas, the Middle East and Africa in just 1 year.

In our mining operations, we continue to execute our strategy to reprioritize hashrate optimization over expansion by refreshing older, less energy-efficient models to the T21 and S21 series and disciplined operations with significantly improved average operating hashrate, from 40.91 exahash in July to 44.85 exahash in September and further to 46.09 exahash in October, with efficiency surpassing 90%. In August, we also acquired a 50-megawatt mining facility in the state of Georgia, lowering per unit operating costs and building dedicated energy infrastructure to support our long-term strategy.

The current market environment remains volatile with significant fluctuations in Bitcoin prices. Cango is closely monitoring these dynamics, and we'll continue to manage our deployed output and explore partnership models to mitigate market risks and enhance operating stability. While consolidating our core business, we also clarified our long-term strategy, building a global distributed AI compute network powered by green energy, with Bitcoin combining as a practical on ramp towards our energy and compute ambitions, following the sequence from Bitcoin mining to energy exercise and from operational depth to AI compute deployments.

In the third quarter were executed our phased road map with strict financial discipline, looking small-scale pilots with clear technical and IRR thresholds across both energy and AI compute. Our clean energy projects in Oman and in Indonesia are now underway and are expected to be commissioned within the next 1 or 2 years, providing strategic support for subsequent AI infrastructure development.

The AI compute. In AI compute, Cango is taking a differentiated approach. Instead of building large centralized data centers, we focus on flexible distributed compute units in practical, this will integrate dispersed GPU resources into standardized compute pools and break them into smaller units tailored to the needs of small and midsized enterprises. This approach is enabled by 2 core advantages our distributed operational expertise and our global energy footprint, allowing us to execute a unique asset-light first strategy.

In terms of governance, we have assembled a new leadership team with deep experience in digital infrastructure and finance and completed the transmission from an APR listing to a direct listing on the NYSE to enhance transparency and reduce shareholder transaction costs. These initiatives provide strong support for our next phase of development.

Lastly, let me briefly update you on our legacy business. Our used car export platform, AutoCango, delivered strong performance this quarter with revenue of USD 3.3 million, 90% sequentially. The platform remains asset-light and continues to scale, connecting buyers from Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe with quality vehicle inventory from China.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Michael Zhang, our Chief Financial Officer, to take you through the financials in more detail.

Yongyi Zhang
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Paul. Hello, everyone, and welcome to our third quarter 2025 earnings call. Before I begin the review of our financials, please note that starting this quarter, we will begin reporting U.S. dollars, which better reflects the profile of our revenue and profit following the divestiture of our charter asset in May 2025. Unless otherwise specified, all amounts discussed are in U.S. dollars.

Total revenue in the third quarter of 2025 were $224.6 million, up 60.6% sequentially. Revenue from the Bitcoin mining business in the third quarter of 2025 was $220.9 million with a total of 1,930.8 Bitcoins mined during the period, up 50.9% and 37.5%, respectively, on a sequential basis. The average cost of mining Bitcoin, excluding depreciation of mining machines, was $81,072 per coin with all-in costs at $99,383 per coin. Revenue from our automotive training business was $3.3 million in the third quarter of 2025.

Now let's move on to our cost and expenses during the quarter. Cost of revenues exclusive for depreciation in the third quarter 2025 was $162.6 million. Depreciation in the third quarter 2025 was $35.4 million. General and administrative expenses in the third quarter was $6 million. We recorded operating income of $43.5 million and net income of $37.3 million in the third quarter of 2025 compared with an operating loss of $1.2 million and a net loss of $9.5 million in the same period last year. On a non-GAAP basis, adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2025 was $80.1 million compared with $1.2 million in the same period last year.

Moving on to our balance sheet. As of September 30, 2025, we had cash and cash equivalents of $44.9 million. Our balance sheet also reflects a $660 million receivables for Bitcoin collateral. In terms of operational assets, we carry our mining machine at a net value of $365.7 million of depreciation. On the liability side, we had $405.1 million in long-term debt owed to related parties. Together, these figures represent the core components of our financial structure as we closed the third quarter of 2025.

This concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, we are now ready to take questions.