Pathward Financial, Inc. (CASH) Q1 2026 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Darby Schoenfeld - Senior VP and Chief of Staff & Investor Relations
Brett Pharr - CEO & Director
Gregory Sigrist - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Timothy Switzer - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Joseph Yanchunis - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Pathward Financial's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Investor Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Darby Schoenfeld, Senior Vice President, Chief of Staff and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Darby Schoenfeld
Senior VP and Chief of Staff & Investor Relations

Thank you, operator, and welcome. With me today are Pathward Financial's CEO, Brett Pharr; and CFO, Gregory Sigrist, who will discuss our operating and financial results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2026, after which, we will take your questions. Additional information, including the earnings release, the investor presentation that accompanies our prepared remarks and supplemental slides may be found on our website at pathwardfinancial.com.

As a reminder, our comments may include forward-looking statements. Those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual and anticipated results to differ. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Please refer to the cautionary language in the earnings release, investor presentation and in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent filings for additional information covering factors that could cause actual and anticipated results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.

Additionally, today, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures on this conference call. References to non-GAAP measures are only provided to assist you in understanding the company's results and performance trends, particularly in competitive analysis. Reconciliations for such non-GAAP measures are included in the earnings release and the appendix of the investor presentation.

Finally, all time periods referenced are fiscal quarters and fiscal years, and all comparisons are to the prior year period unless otherwise noted.

Now let me turn the call over to Brett Pharr, our CEO.

Brett Pharr
CEO & Director

Thanks, Darby, and welcome, everyone, to our earnings conference call. We kicked off the year in a position of strength. And overall, we are pleased with the financial results the team achieved in the quarter. I want to take a moment to talk about what we do, how we do it and why we believe Pathward is uniquely positioned as a leader in this space. Whether you are an investor, analyst or another member of the financial community, you likely have an understanding of how a traditional bank works. Banks take deposits from individuals or corporations, lend those deposits and move money. In this, Pathward is no different. Where we differ is how we do those things. First of all, we move money. Where we differ is we work with partners and facilitate payments through issuing sponsorship, merchant acquiring sponsorship, independent ATM sponsorship, consumer credit sponsorship and digital payments, assisting them with the moving of significant amounts of money relative to our size across the nation. In issuing sponsorship, we move money and facilitate payments via products such as prepaid cards, gift cards, loyalty cards, payroll cards and general purpose reloadable cards. With over 20 years of experience in payment facilitation, Pathward's value proposition is anchored in 4 principal pillars: Our leadership is seasoned and has deep expertise in payments and sponsorship; second, our combination of people, processes and operating structure delivers a streamline approach to banking and provides reliable and sustainable partner programs; third, we deliver partnership with a commitment that enables our partner success; and lastly, a consultative governance approach rooted in our stable risk and compliance infrastructure that helps partners manage a regulatory framework that is also complex and difficult to manage.

Second, we hold deposits. Where we differ is that generally, our issuing partnerships provide Pathward with stable deposits. As one of the most mature and experienced sponsored banks, we work with our partners to help them grow scale and co-create solutions that facilitate innovation. Because of our differences, we are able to generate significant fee income, this leads us to lending. Like other banks, we lend our deposits. However, we specialize in working with businesses that for a multitude of reasons, may not be able to work with or borrow from a traditional bank. We provide lending products that help these businesses access funds they need to launch, operate and grow. In some cases, we are also working through partners to originate commercial finance loans. Pathward strengths help us deliver on our purpose of financial inclusion. Our partnerships offer financial solutions that help individuals and businesses who are underserved, underrepresented or even unbanked. Additionally, as our world grows increasingly dependent and relied upon digital-first or digital-only solutions, Pathward's role in fulfilling the needs of these individuals and companies, both expand and increases. While at a high level, we operate the same as the traditional bank. We believe it is our unique value propositions, partnerships and position in the marketplace that allows us to help a greater variety of consumers and businesses as well as generate results that we believe exceed those of a traditional bank. This is characterized by a disciplined balance sheet optimization and fee income working together to generate positive performance. Last year, our return on average assets was over 2%. Our return on average tangible equity was over 38% and roughly 40% of our revenue came from noninterest income. Our business model optimizes our long-term strategy, being the trusted platform that enables our partners to thrive.

Our 2026 goals are off to a great start. As part of our commitment to the client experience, we announced the rollout of an evolved operating model last month. We firmly believe this model better aligns with our partners by supporting their growth and scalability and creating a more seamless experience. Each of the respective leaders have strong, relevant industry background and a solid commitment to Pathward's culture. We believe this decision ultimately positions our clients for greater success and revenue enablement and the company for increased innovation and growth. Building upon the progress we've made over the last few years, we believe revenue growth will come from 3 main areas during the fiscal year. It's important to note that we have prioritized areas that are not dependent on growing our balance sheet in order to grow revenue. First, we have additional capacity to optimize the balance sheet through the continued rotation from securities to loans, increasing net interest income without growing the overall asset size. As we continue to optimize, we are also looking at the yields of each asset, and we intend to continue to favor areas where we believe we have a competitive advantage to deliver a higher risk-adjusted return or optionality. This leads to the second area of revenue growth, fee income from balance sheet velocity. Our business model supports the ability to originate and sell loans, thereby generating additional revenue. By utilizing velocity for both commercial and consumer loans, our balance sheet can remain steady, while generating both interest income and noninterest income for the business.

Finally, in 2025, we announced multiple contracts for products such as merchant acquiring sponsorship, which has little impact to the balance sheet that generates noninterest income. Money movement, specifically issuing sponsorship was how Pathward entered into sponsored banking and is still the core of our business. But with our partner searching for a bank that can provide multiple products outside of issuing, offering multi-thread solutions across a breadth of banking needs is an important differentiator.

Finally, tax season has begun, and we are 1 step ahead with over 11% more enrolled tax offices than at this point last year. We do look forward to a number of possible benefits. First has to do with the change in tax code for 2025. We believe this change has the potential to drive more consumers into the tax preparation offices that we serve.

Second, we exited last year's season with renewed agreements across all of our tax software partners.

And finally, we continue to make technology improvements throughout the year for greater efficiencies when compared to years past and look forward to reaping those benefits in 2026. As an industry leader in tax-related financial products, we pride ourselves in offering one of the most comprehensive product mixes in the tax industry including products and services like refund transfers, refund advances, ERO loans and facilitating refunds on prepaid cards. We feel confident that we will be able to deliver on our goals and look forward to providing a more robust tax update next quarter.

Now I'd like to turn it over to Greg, who will take you through the financials.

Gregory Sigrist
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Brett. We were pleased with our results in the quarter, which were marked by solid growth in our core business, growing interest income and commercial finance with a lower provision, increasing core card and deposit fee income and flat expenses.

Let me start with the sale of the consumer finance portfolio we mentioned on last quarter's call, which had an impact on several income statement line items, including an $11.9 million reduction to net interest income. This amount is largely offset by reduced provision and lower other expenses. So while optically, it appears that these income statement line items are lower year-over-year, the net impact is quite muted.

Similarly, net interest margin has been reduced by this gross-up amount, while the offsetting line items were in areas that do not impact NIM.

Within net interest income, Contribution from commercial finance increased $9.2 million in the quarter due to higher balances and slightly higher yields given our continued focus on optimization.

Provision for credit losses was lower than last year, in part due to a recovery from a commercial finance loan that moved into nonperforming during the first quarter of last year. Given our approach to collateral management and monitoring, we are often able to work out or resolved loans that have moved into nonperforming status, recovering most, if not all, of the funds. It may take us a few quarters but this is why we focus more on annualized net charge-offs than nonperforming loan volumes. I'll highlight this because, as we have mentioned previously, this is the nature of our business and an example of why we are comfortable with our credit trends. We reported solid results and noninterest income, particularly in core card and deposit fees. If you remove the impact of servicing fees on custodial deposits, which decreased as expected by about $1 million, we saw good growth in that line. This reflects some of the new partners we announced in fiscal 2025 beginning to show up in our revenue numbers. Due to the government shutdown, we fell just shy of our goal range for secondary market revenues but we believe this is just a timing impact, and we expect to make that up in subsequent quarters.

Finally, we saw a decrease in rental income due to lower balances and operating leases. However, this is largely offset in noninterest expenses in the form of lower operating lease equipment depreciation.

Noninterest expenses were well managed during the quarter, coming in slightly better when compared to last year. We saw lower rate-related card processing fees, primarily due to a lower rate environment. This led to net income of $35.2 million and earnings per diluted share of $1.57, showing significant increases of 17% and 28%, respectively, when compared to last year.

In addition, annualized performance metrics were also strong for the first quarter. Keeping in mind our normal seasonality with return on average assets of 1.87% and a return on average tangible equity of 26.7%, compared to 1.61% and 25.5%, respectively, during the same quarter last year.

Deposits held on the company's balance sheet at December 31 totaled $6.4 billion, which is a $170 million decrease versus a year ago. This was primarily driven by having $200 million more in custodial deposits at the end of the first quarter when compared to last year.

Average deposits on the company's balance sheet during the quarter were around $90 million higher than last year's quarter. Average custodial deposits during the quarter decreased slightly when compared to last year. During the quarter, we saw favorable deposit balances at multiple partners due to a strong holiday season and continued partner growth.

Loans and leases at December 31 were $5 billion, compared to $4.6 billion last year. The primary driver of the increase was $531 million increase in commercial finance loans, partially offset by a $148 million decrease in consumer finance loans. Additionally, during the quarter, we originated $1.9 billion in loans with $678 million in commercial finance and $1.2 billion in consumer finance. We are quite pleased by the growth in consumer originations, which was driven in part by the new contract we announced last year. This loan production is the engine behind our balance sheet optimization strategy, which includes balance sheet velocity.

Our nonperforming loans ticked up slightly when compared to last quarter. We continue to monitor loans we discussed on the prior quarter earnings call. As we indicated then, these loans are in different verticals, and we do not believe represent a systemic portfolio issue. We continue to believe that there is a path forward to resolving these loans in due course over the next several quarters. To reiterate an additional point we made last quarter, when you compare our historic NPLs to NCOs, we do not believe there's a correlation between them. As I mentioned earlier, because we take a collateralized approach to underwriting and credit management, we generally focus on our annualized net charge-offs since we have risk mitigation techniques designed to address past due and nonperforming loans built into our lending process. This quarter is a good example of what we are describing. Our total NCOs as a percentage of average loans when excluding tax services loans was 2 bps on an annualized basis. In commercial finance, our net charge-offs were actually a net recovery for the quarter, and our trailing 12-month net charge-offs are at 39 basis points. Our allowance for credit loss ratio in commercial finance was 116 basis points in the quarter, a slight improvement when compared to 118 basis points for the same quarter last year. Our liquidity remains strong with $3.7 billion available, and we're extremely pleased with our position at this point in the year. During the quarter, we repurchased approximately 652,000 shares at an average price of $72.07. This leaves 4.3 million shares still available for repurchase under the current stock repurchase program. We are increasing our fiscal year 2026 guidance to an EPS range of $8.55 to $9.05, which includes the following assumptions: no additional rate cuts during the year; an effective tax rate of 18% to 22% and expected share repurchases.

This concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, please open the line for questions.

