CAVA Group, Inc. (CAVA) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Matt Milanovich - Senior Vice President of Finance
Brett Schulman - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director
Tricia Tolivar - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Andrew Barish - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Brian Mullan - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
David Tarantino - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Eric Gonzalez - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Andrew Charles - TD Cowen, Research Division
Sharon Zackfia - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Jacob Aiken-Phillips - Melius Research LLC
John Ivankoe - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Christopher O'Cull - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Sara Senatore - BofA Securities, Research Division
Danilo Gargiulo - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Dennis Geiger - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Jon Tower - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Brian Harbour - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Logan Reich - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Nick Setyan
Brian Vaccaro - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the CAVA Q3 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Tuesday, November 4, 2025. I would now like to turn the conference over to Matt Milanovich, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Matt Milanovich
Senior Vice President of Finance

Good afternoon, and welcome to CAVA's Third Quarter 2025 Financial Results Conference Call. Before we begin, if you do not already have a copy, the earnings release and related 8-K furnished to the SEC are available on our website at investor.cava.com. The purpose of this conference call is to give investors further details regarding the company's financial results as well as a general update on the company's progress. You will find reconciliations between non-GAAP financial measures discussed on today's call to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP to the extent available without any reasonable efforts in today's earnings release and supplemental deck, each of which is posted on the company's website.

Before we begin, let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements. For this purpose, any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.

These risk factors are explained in detail in CAVA's most recent annual report on Form 10-K as may be updated by its reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC. Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements. All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law, CAVA undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

And now I'll turn the call over to the company's Co-Founder and CEO, Brett Schulman.

Brett Schulman
Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Matt, and welcome to the call, everyone. During the third quarter of 2025, we continue to strengthen our leadership in Mediterranean, a category we have pioneered and are rapidly growing while staying true to our mission of bringing heart, health and humanity to food. As consumers today face a challenging environment, the relevance of Mediterranean cuisine and the way we deliver at CAVA continues to resonate deeply. This differentiation enables strong average unit volumes, consistent value creation and the structural strength of our model. With growing market share and significant white space ahead, we remain confident and steadfast in our ability to create lasting value, build enduring guest loyalty and reinforce our position as the clear leader of the Mediterranean category.

Our third quarter highlights include a 20% increase in CAVA revenue and a 66.8% increase over the last 2 years. CAVA same restaurant sales growth of 1.9% and restaurant-level profit margin of 24.6%, 17 net new restaurants, ending the quarter with 415 restaurants, a 17.9% increase year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA of $40 million, a 19.6% increase over the third quarter of 2024, net income of $14.7 million and $23.3 million in year-to-date free cash flow. As I've shared in prior quarters, our brand proposition is strong and continues to strengthen as reflected in our expanding market share. Since 2019, while overall restaurant industry sales have grown, industry transactions have declined, yet CAVA has not only maintained but increased our market share significantly by delivering on our promise of high-quality food, brand relevance, curated guest experiences and seamless convenience.

During that same time frame, we have worked relentlessly to make our food more accessible to guests, underpricing CPI by almost 10%, while taking less than half the aggregate, 34% price increases of industry peers. At the same time, we recognize that today's environment is creating real pressures for consumers, especially younger guests who are making more deliberate choices about where they spend. It's incumbent upon restaurants to deliver exceptional experiences and differentiated value to guests. That's why the foundation my co-founders and I built 15 years ago is more important than ever. From day 1, our aspiration was simple, to make our Mediterranean cuisine accessible to communities across the country, delivering it with welcoming hospitality while serving as a platform for our team members to build a career, not just have employment. This concept essence continues to guide everything we do to this day. As we capture the white space opportunity ahead of us, our growing market share is driven by the intention rooted in our first strategic pillar, expand our Mediterranean Way in communities across the country.

During the third quarter, we opened 17 net new restaurants, bringing our total restaurant count to 415 locations across 28 states and the District of Columbia. Amongst them was our highly anticipated Brickell opening in Miami where the energy and enthusiasm from our guests was palpable, a powerful reminder that with every new CAVA, we're not just growing our footprint, but also deepening connection and fostering community.

Recent openings also highlight projects sold, our restaurant redesign initiative that brings the Mediterranean Way to life through warm tones, greenery, natural light and softer seating, design elements that turn our restaurants into welcoming places to dine. The project sold prototype is now finished and the complete design will roll out in new openings next year. And just as our environments invite connection so do our bold Mediterranean flavors.

Earlier this quarter, we introduced our latest protein innovation chicken shawarma, juicy roasted chicken breasts marinated in a signature spice blood and hand stacked on a spit. The launch performed to our market test expectations with incidence levels that showed strong guest responsiveness and healthy engagement across our restaurants. Another example of how distinctive, innovative and satisfying flavors rooted in health continue to resonate with our guests.

That same spirit of innovation comes through with our recent salmon market test, which has shown encouraging results. Salmon is a natural fit for our menu and represents an exciting milestone as our first ever seafood offering. Our roasted flaky fillet marinade in a subtly sweet [indiscernible] barista, red wine vinegar and bold spices not only complements our Mediterranean flavors beautifully, but also broadens the variety we can offer guests. Early results reaffirm the strong potential we see and if performance continues, we will plan to expand salmon more broadly across our restaurants in late spring of 2026. While proteins like salmon and chicken shawarma remain a critical focus of our culinary innovation pipeline, we also know that smaller touches can carry just as much weight in keeping our guests excited.

Our pita chips are a perfect example. Last month, we introduced cinnamon and sugar pita chips, dusted with cinnamon sugar and the hint of cardamom paired with honey for dipping. The sweet twists on a fan favorite that brings both snacking and dessert occasions to life.

Shifting to our second pillar, deepen personal relationships with guests even as we scale. This past October marked the 1-year anniversary of our rewards, reimagined, relaunch. And since then, the program has grown by approximately 36% and has become a key platform for connecting with guests in a more personal, meaningful and creative ways. Building on that momentum, we recently introduced tiered status levels as the next phase of the program. Through our new sea, sand and sun structure, members now enjoy differentiated benefits and surprise and delight experiences designed to celebrate their loyalty and strengthen long-term engagements. As an extension of our brand spirit of generosity, we also launched status matching to welcome new members and encourage deeper participation. While status matching is a first of its kind offering in our industry, we see it simply as another way to express our concept essence. The latest evolution of our program also includes an expanded rewards catalog with seasonal offerings and fresh new ways to engage.

With every enhancement, our goal is to create a deeper sense of belonging and continuity for our guests, whether it's elevating hospitality, improving order accuracy or better speed of service at our core is our commitment to building a strong operational foundation. And regardless of near-term cyclical pressures on the consumer, we're doubling down and focusing now more than ever on delivering for the long term with exceptional guest experiences and ensuring that our restaurants are staffed with team members that are equipped, empowered and trained to run great restaurants every location, every shift, our third strategic pillar. The role technology plays in our restaurants is important and providing our team members with the tools to deliver consistently great experiences as a key focus area.

An initiative in that spirit is our new kitchen display system which we are now on track to roll out to at least 350 locations by year-end with over 200 restaurants live today. We are continuing to see encouraging results as restaurants with the new KDS are experiencing higher guest satisfaction scores, driven by improved digital accuracy and proactive guest order status notification capabilities. In addition to improvements across technology, we're also investing in equipment that makes our restaurants easier to run, such as our TurboChef ovens. All CAVA restaurants are now equipped with a TurboChef oven. These ovens allow for faster, more consistent cook times, enabling simpler execution in our restaurants while elevating food quality.

Both the TurboChef and KDS investments helped reinforce execution in our kitchens while allowing our teams to focus on what matters most, delivering a great guest experience. We are at a meaningful moment in our growth journey, and we know it is crucial to invest in training and developing our team members. Today, I'm excited to introduce our new Flavor Your Feature initiative, a holistic team member development program designed to attract, develop and retain CAVA's feature leaders. One of the first actions under this initiative is the launch of our new Assistant General Manager program, an evolution of our current general manager and training role. This role provides more experienced leadership in our restaurants on more shifts throughout the week, ensuring a clear #2 leader is always in place. It will also create a stronger pipeline of roll-ready leaders to take on the GM role as we scale and open more restaurants.

Today, about 20% of our leaders are ready for immediate elevation, 50% will be roll ready with additional training over the next quarter and the remaining 30% likely sourced externally. The AGM role is just one component of a broader leadership initiative that we are excited to share more about in the quarters ahead.

Our commitment to developing team members into restaurant managers remains a core near-term focus, and we're excited about the opportunity to build the next generation of CAVA leaders. You can see the power of that commitment in stories like that, [ Angelo Miranda ] at our Millennium location. Angelo started as a team member, eager to learn and grow, under the guidance of his then General Manager, Ruben Holguin. He learned the business from the ground up. He developed his leadership skills through consistent coaching, feedback and belief in its potential.

Over the years, that investment has paid off. Today, Angelo leads the same restaurant where he began his journey now as a General Manager, inspiring the next generation of team members to do the same. When I visited Millennia earlier this month, I saw firsthand the culture of growth and pride that Angelo and his team have built. Angelo was quick to introduce me to his high potential team members he is developing as future CAVA restaurant leaders. It's a true reflection of what happens when we invest in people and create pathways for them to lead. And Angelo's original GM, Ruben, he is now an area leader overseeing 9 restaurants. Our mission is to bring heart, health and humanity to food, and it continues to drive our strategy, shape our culture and inspire the work of more than 13,000 team members each day to our teams and to all of you who share in this journey. Thank you.

And with that, I'll pass the call off to Tricia to walk you through the financials.

Tricia Tolivar
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Brett, and hello, everyone. CAVA revenue in the third quarter of 2025 grew 20% year-over-year to $289.8 million and 66.8% compared to the third quarter of 2023. During the quarter, we opened 17 net new restaurants, bringing our total CAVA restaurant count to 415 restaurants. CAVA's same-restaurant sales increased 1.9%, primarily from menu price and product mix with guest traffic approximately flat. On a 2-year basis, same-restaurant sales accelerated 350 basis points to 20%. On a 3-year basis, same-restaurant sales remained relatively stable at 34.1%. Despite lapping strong prior year results and navigating macroeconomic pressures, we continue to grow our market share and are confident in the underlying structural strength of the business.

Our new restaurant productivity remains above 100%, underscoring the resonance of our brand. CAVA restaurant level profit in the third quarter was $71.2 million or 24.6% of revenue versus $61.8 million or 25.6% of revenue in the third quarter of 2024, representing a 15.1% increase. CAVA's food, beverage and packaging costs were 30.1% of revenue, higher than the third quarter of 2024 by 20 basis points. This slight increase reflects the impact of tariffs and our limited time-only chicken shawarma offering. CAVA labor and related costs were 25.5% of revenue, an increase of approximately 10 basis points from the third quarter of 2024.

This increase in labor and related costs reflects investments in our team member wages of approximately 2%, partially offset by leverage from higher sales. CAVA occupancy and related expenses were 6.7% of revenue, an improvement of 10 basis points from the third quarter of 2024, driven primarily by increased sales leverage. Cava other operating expenses were 13.1% of revenue, reflecting an increase of 80 basis points from the third quarter of 2024. This increase was due to a higher mix of third-party delivery, insurance costs and other individually insignificant items.

Shifting to overall performance. Our general and administrative expenses for the quarter, excluding stock-based compensation and executive transition costs were 9.4% of revenue compared with 10.8% of revenue in the third quarter of 2024. This 140 basis point improvement was primarily due to lower performance-based incentive compensation, leverage from higher sales, lower legal costs, partially offset by investments to support our future growth. Preopening expenses were $4.9 million in the current quarter compared with $2.8 million in the prior year quarter. The $2.1 million increase includes a higher number of units under construction and increased costs on a per unit basis.

Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $40 million, a 19.6% increase versus the third quarter of 2024. The increase in adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by the number of and continued strength in new restaurant openings and leverage in general and administrative expenses. Equity-based compensation was $3.3 million in the third quarter compared with $3.5 million in the prior year quarter. We anticipate full year equity-based compensation to be between $18 million and $20 million, which includes the 2025 grants as well as the impact of forfeitures.

In the third quarter, our effective tax rate was 28.6%. For the full year fiscal 2025, we expect our effective tax rate to be between 10% and 12%. As a reminder, our cash taxes will continue to be immaterial until we fully utilize our net operating losses.

During the third quarter, we reported $14.7 million of GAAP net income compared to $15 million of adjusted net income in Q3 of 2024. Diluted EPS was $0.12 in the third quarter compared with adjusted diluted EPS of $0.13 in the third quarter of 2024. The slight decrease was due to the allocation of income taxes in the prior year, excluding the release of the valuation allowance, partially offset by higher earnings before taxes.

Turning to liquidity. At the end of the quarter, we had 0 debt outstanding, $387.7 million in cash and investments and access to a $75 million undrawn revolver with an option to increase our liquidity as needed. Year-to-date Q3 cash flow from operations was $144.5 million compared to $131.2 million during the year-to-date period in 2024. Year-to-date, Q3 free cash flow was $23.3 million.

Now to our outlook for full year 2025, we expect the following: 68 to 70 net new CAVA restaurant openings. CAVA same restaurant sales growth of 3% to 4%. CAVA restaurant level profit margin between 24.4% and 24.8%. Preopening costs between $18 million and $19 million and adjusted EBITDA, including the burden of preopening costs between $148 million and $152 million.

I'd like to provide some additional context around our updated guidance. As we exited the second quarter, we saw same restaurant sales reaccelerate and we're encouraged by the sequential improvement. However, as the third quarter progressed, we experienced a moderation in trends reflecting broader macroeconomic pressures. Entering the fourth quarter, we're seeing further moderation as we continue to lap stronger same restaurant sales from the prior year. As such, we have incorporated these trends into our outlook for the remainder of 2025. Our same-restaurant sales guidance reflects both the benefit of our recent chicken shawarma launch, which performed in line with market test expectations and the ongoing macro headwinds impacting the industry. Despite these macro pressures, our 2-year same-restaurant sales stack accelerated by 350 basis points to 20% underscoring the resilience of our brand and the strength of our guest engagement.

Looking ahead, we remain confident in the long-term structural health of the business reaffirmed by our strong AUVs and new restaurant performance. Our most recent 2025 cohort is trending above $3 million in AUV, with new unit productivity continuing to exceed 100%.

Turning to restaurant level margins. Our guidance reflects dynamics we experienced in the third quarter and the anticipated impact of seasonality on margins. As we look ahead to next year, we remain confident in the structural foundation of the business while being mindful of ongoing macroeconomic pressures. Our long-term algorithm targets low to mid-single-digit same-restaurant sales growth and we will approach our 2026 outlook with appropriate discipline, taking into consideration our strong pipeline of traffic-driving initiatives. In addition, given the health of our 2026 real estate pipeline, we anticipate at least 16% unit count growth.

As we navigate today's dynamic environment, our mission to bring heart, health and humanity to food continues to resonate with guests across the country and is more important than ever. We remain the clear leader of our category, supported by a powerful concept and competitive positioning that are both differentiated and durable. None of this would be possible without our exceptional teams across our restaurants and support centers. This dedication brings our mission to life every day to drive meaningful experiences for our guests.

With that, I will turn the call back over to the operator to open it up for Q&A.