Carnival Corporation & plc (CCL) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 19, 2025 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Beth Roberts - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Josh Weinstein - CEO & Director
David Bernstein - CFO & Chief Accounting Officer

Conference Call Participants

Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Steven Wieczynski - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Benjamin Chaiken - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
James Hardiman - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Elizabeth Dove - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
David Katz - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Jaime Katz - Morningstar Inc., Research Division
Conor Cunningham - Melius Research LLC
Sharon Zackfia - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Carnival Corporation & plc Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Beth Roberts, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Thank you, Beth. You may begin.

Beth Roberts
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to our fourth quarter 2025 earnings conference call. I'm joined today by our CEO, Josh Weinstein; our CFO, David Bernstein; and our Chair, Micky Arison. Before we begin, please note that some of our remarks on this call will be forward looking. Therefore, I will refer you to today's press release and our filings with the SEC for additional information on factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations. We will be referencing certain non-GAAP financial measures, including yields, cruise costs without fuel, EBITDA, net income, ROIC and related statistics for all which are on a net basis or adjusted as defined, unless otherwise stated.

A reconciliation to U.S. GAAP is included in our earnings press release and our investor presentation. References to ticket prices, yields and cruise costs without fuel are in constant currency unless we note otherwise. Please visit our corporate website where our earnings press release and investor presentation can be found. For further information on our proposed DLC unification and shift in legal incorporation, please visit carnivalcorp.com/unify. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Josh.

Josh Weinstein
CEO & Director

Thanks, Beth. It is definitely gratifying to begin this call by saying we delivered yet another very strong quarter to finish a fantastic year. Not only did we deliver historical fourth quarter highs for revenues, yields, operating income and EBITDA, we achieved these record results in each and every quarter of the year and for the full year. 2025 was clearly another step change forward for us. We delivered over $3 billion to the bottom line, a 60% increase over 2024 and an all-time high net income for our company. This was over 30% greater than our initial guidance. Full year yields improved more than 5.5% over last year and topped our initial guidance by almost 1.5 points driven by successful commercial execution across our industry-leading cruise lines and all while absorbing the heightened volatility we encountered periodically throughout the year.

We also brought unit costs in over 1 point better than initial guidance at a 2.6% increase for the year with successful cost management mitigating inflation, higher dry dock expenses and the inclusion of costs for our amazing new destination Celebration Key, Grand Bahama. This combination pushed operating margins and EBITDA margins up by over 250 basis points year-over-year, leading to the highest operating income per ALBD in almost 20 years and EBITDA per ALBD reaching an all-time high.

For all of these incredible achievements, full credit goes to our hard-working and dedicated team, the best in all of travel and leisure, for the consistent outperformance throughout the year that resulted in ROIC in excess of 13%, the highest level this company has seen in 19 years. Having said that, we are very well positioned to top 2025's fantastic results in 2026. We are already about 2/3 booked in line with where we were a year ago at this time and at historical high prices for both North America and Europe. And over the last 3 months, we achieved booking volumes that were at record levels for both 2026 and 2027.

At the same time, closing demand remains strong as demonstrated by the outperformance in our fourth quarter by our onboard revenue per diem significantly outperforming prior year levels and our customer deposits up 7% year-over-year, hitting an all-time high for year-end. Our book position and recent performance are all despite Michigan's U.S. consumer sentiment readings dipping quite low for several months throughout 2025, and in fact, last month dropping pretty close to its lowest level in recorded history. It is a true testament to the strength of the product offering across our portfolio of world-class cruise lines and our guests prioritizing their spending with us.

In reality, the disconnect between consumer sentiment and actual booking behavior continues to reinforce what we've said for a long time. Demand for our cruise lines is proving far more resilient than traditional macro indicators would suggest. We are expecting another year of same-ship yield improvement, marking our fourth consecutive year of low or mid-single-digit per diem growth. Normalizing for the accounting changes from the implementation of Carnival Cruise Line's beneficial new loyalty program and late-stage deployment changes necessitated by geopolitical uncertainties in the Arabian Gulf, we are forecasting a 3% yield increase in 2026. And while I think it's obvious to address the question we've been getting most often, our 2026 guidance fully incorporates the 14% increase in non-Carnival Corporation capacity growth in the Caribbean, taking that to a 27% increase in just 2 years as well as our 4% growth over that time period.

Now even against that backdrop, we continue to drive the business forward, underscoring the advantage of our diversified global portfolio. We are also continuing to successfully mitigate inflation through effective cost management. And again, with no ship deliveries for 2026, we don't have the advantage of offsetting large cost increases with significant capacity growth. On that basis, we've guided to unit cost growth of 3.25%, which includes a partial year of operating costs from our successful new destination developments and the timing of expenses hitting in the first quarter of 2026 rather than Q4 2025. David will provide more color around the costs, but normalized just for these 2 items, net cruise costs ex fuel per ALBD are expected to be up about 2.5% for the full year. All told, in 2026, we will bring over $350 million more to the bottom line year-over-year and generate over $7.6 billion of EBITDA.

With this strong cash flow, no new ship deliveries this year and the fantastic balance sheet improvements we've made over the last 2 years, we're about a year ahead of schedule and can now embark on a capital allocation strategy that will return even more value to shareholders. Having reached a better-than-expected investment-grade leverage ratio of 3.4x at year-end, I am pleased to say we are now formally resuming our dividend at an initial rate of $0.15 per quarter, which we expect to grow responsibly over time. Reinstating the dividend reflects both our confidence in the durability of our cash generation and the structural improvements we've made to our balance sheet. Alongside the dividend, we will continue to delever to get below 3x net debt to EBITDA while still allowing for opportunistic share repurchases in the future. In fact, we just kick started that a bit by calling the last of our convertible debt and in the process using some cash to take out 18 million shares.

We will also have ample opportunity to deliver even greater shareholder value over time as we continue to reinvest in our future through our disciplined newbuild program, return-generating vessel enhancement programs like our successful AIDA Evolution project, which will soon expand to several of our other brands and our ongoing destination development efforts. We see much more pricing opportunity ahead as we transition our destination strategy from what has historically been a utilitarian asset base to a marketable growth driver for years to come. Celebration Key is a real differentiator for us and will be complemented by the expansion at RelaxAway, Half Moon Cay later this year. This will soon be followed by Isla Tropicale, Roat n as we lean into the rest of our Paradise Collection even harder.

And as recently announced, we'll also be looking forward to a great guest experience we're developing with our partners in Ensenada, Mexico, showcasing the culture and natural beauty of Baja California, Mexico that will greatly benefit our West Coast deployments. And our significant competitive land, sea advantage in the incredibly profitable Alaska trade will continue to serve us well for decades to come. On top of these important attributes, cruising has clearly become a mainstream vacation alternative, and we have positioned our company with the most diversified portfolio of world-class cruise lines in the industry. And in fact, we hold the #1 or 2 brand in every major market for cruising today. Our well-recognized cruise lines have been honing in on their target markets, sharpening their marketing messages and reaching target consumers in an incredibly efficient manner.

Moreover, we are continuously improving upon our yield management tools and techniques to generate the most revenue possible from our asset base. We're also leaning into AI to further improve in areas such as marketing effectiveness and enhanced personalization and to find further efficiency gains across the business. And the good news is the price-to-experience ratio to land-based alternatives is still at a ridiculous value and provides enormous headroom for many years to come. And that's despite what will be an approximately 20% cumulative yield increase for us since 2023. So while we are not immune to things like the lowest consumer sentiment in years or capacity spikes in our most concentrated market or geopolitical conflicts around the world, having 2/3 of the business on the books at higher prices underscores the resilience of our business model.

Against all of that background noise, we plan to deliver another double-digit earnings growth on top of the 60% increase we achieved in 2025, leaving us well positioned to continue to outperform in the consumer discretionary and travel space yet again. Again, thank you so much to each of our team members, ship and shore, who have delivered such phenomenal results in 2025 and set us up well for another step forward in 2026. At the end of the day, this is about delivering unforgettable happiness to over 13.5 million people around the world by providing them with extraordinary cruise vacations while honoring the integrity of every ocean we sail, place we visit and life we touch.

And that is something we do incredibly well. Thanks also goes out to our travel agent partners who have contributed immensely to this success. Likewise, a heartfelt thanks is owed to our loyal guests, investors, destination partners and other stakeholders. Suffice it to say, these accomplishments reflect the effort, support and loyalty we've received from all of you. I continue to be very proud of what we've been able to accomplish together while at the same time remain incredibly excited about the runway ahead that leads to continued improvement to our business and results for years to come. With that, I'll turn the call over to David.

David Bernstein
CFO & Chief Accounting Officer

Thank you, Josh. I'll start today with a summary of our 2025 fourth quarter results. Next, I will provide a recap of our 2025 deleveraging and refinancing efforts. Then I'll give some color on our 2026 full year December guidance as well as some key insights into our 2026 first quarter and then finish up with some comments on the recommended simplification of our corporate structure.

Turning to the summary of our fourth quarter results. Net income of $454 million was nearly 2.5x the prior year and exceeded September guidance by $154 million or $0.11 per share as we outperformed once again. The performance versus September guidance was driven mainly by 2 things. First, favorability in revenue were $0.03 per share as yields came in up 5.4% compared to the prior year, and that was on top of last year's robust increase of nearly 7%. This was 110 basis points better than September guidance driven by continued strong close-in demand which resulted in higher ticket prices and an acceleration of strong onboard spending. The increase in yield was driven by improvements on both sides of the Atlantic.

Second, cruise costs without fuel per available lower berth day, or ALBD, were only up 0.5% compared to the prior year. This was 2.7 points better than September guidance and was worth $0.04 per share. The favorability was driven by both cost-saving initiatives, which we firmed up during the quarter as well as timing of certain expenses between the years. The balance of the favorability, $0.04 per share, was a combination of better fuel prices, favorability in fuel consumption and fuel mix, slightly less depreciation than expected, favorable net interest expense and a variety of other small factors.

Next, I will provide a recap of our 2025 deleveraging and refinancing efforts. We have reached a meaningful turning point, achieving an investment-grade net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 3.4x as of the end of the fiscal year 2025. We successfully completed our $19 billion refinancing plan in less than a year. These efforts strengthened our balance sheet by simplifying our capital structure, reducing interest expense and debt, optimizing our future debt maturities and enhancing our financial flexibility.

In total, we have reduced our debt by over $10 billion since the peak less than 3 years ago. These efforts and our strong continued operating performance resulted in multiple credit rating upgrades throughout the year, culminating in reaching investment grade with Fitch and being one notch away with a positive outlook from S&P. All of this is expected to result in an over $700 million improvement in net interest expense in 2026 as compared to 2023 which is fully reflected in our guidance.

Now I will provide some color on our 2026 full year December guidance. On top of the 17% yield growth over the last 2 years, we are expecting to deliver further yield improvement in 2026 with our guidance forecasting an increase of approximately 2.5% which is really 3% when normalized for the Carnival Cruise Line loyalty program accounting and the last-minute changes we made to our Arabian Gulf deployment and certain dry dock schedules. The 2.5% yield growth is worth over $0.35 per share when compared to 2025 which is a result of both an increase in ticket prices and higher onboard spending which has continued to remain strong.

Turning to costs. Cruise costs without fuel per ALBD are expected to be up approximately 3.25%, costing $0.27 per share for 2026 versus 2025. This is really a normalized rate of 2.5% when factoring in 2 things. First, operating expenses for full year operations of Celebration Key, Grand Bahama and the midyear opening of our new pier at RelaxAway, Half Moon Cay will impact our overall year-over-year cost comparisons by 0.5 point. Second, the sliding of some costs from fourth quarter 2025 to 2026 will impact our overall year-over-year cost comparisons by about 0.3 point. The 3 main drivers of our normalized 2.5% cost increase are: first, 3% attributable to inflation and higher advertising expenses; second, about 0.6 point from dry dock expense on our income statement. In 2026, after optimizing our dry dock schedule, we are expecting 604 dry dock days. While the total actual spending for our dry docks in 2026 is expected to be roughly in line with 2025, as a result of the nature of the 2026 work, more of the spending is classified as operating expense and less as capital expenditures.

And third, cost mitigation of approximately 1.1% from efficiency initiatives and further leveraging our industry-leading scale. Regulatory costs related to emission allowances and higher income taxes driven by Pillar 2 will cost us $0.11 per share. Benefits from net interest expense, fuel consumption and capacity were partially offset by increased depreciation for a net favorable impact of $0.06 per share. The net impact of fuel price and currency is expected to favorably impact 2026 by $0.20 per share, with fuel prices favorable by $0.17 and the change in currency exchange rates adding $0.03. In summary, putting all these factors together, our net income guidance for full year 2026 is over $3.45 billion, an improvement of more than 12% versus 2025 or $0.23 per share.

In addition, this will result in $7.6 billion of EBITDA. As we mentioned on the last earnings call, for the longer term, we're targeting a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio under 3x. Well, I'm happy to report that even with 4 dividend payments modeled into our guidance for 2026, we are projecting to get there by the end of the year. Before I leave our 2026 guidance, I did want to update you on the impact of Carnival Cruise Line's new loyalty program, Carnival Rewards, which will now start in September 2026, impacting results for the fourth quarter. As a reminder, while the program will be cash flow positive from day 1, it does impact our yields in 2026. The impact is expected to be 0.2 point in 2026, 0.5 point in 2027, 0.2 point in 2028 and turn positive thereafter.

Now some key insights into our 2026 first quarter. Yield improvement is approximately 1.6% or 2.4% when normalizing for the last-minute changes to our Arabian Gulf deployment and certain dry docks in the first quarter. First quarter 2026 has a difficult prior year comparison as 2025 was at a record level with a 7.3% increase compared to 2024. In addition, the quarter is being affected by the Caribbean double-digit industry-wide growth, along with the first quarter having the largest absolute quarterly capacity in the Caribbean during the year as well as the impact the volatility in the first half of last year had on our advanced booking curve. Adjusted cruise costs, excluding fuel per ALBD, are expected to be up approximately 5.9% compared to the prior year and higher than the full year. This results from the fact that all of the items that are expected to impact the full year will have a greater impact on the first quarter.

I'll finish up with some comments on the recommended simplification of our corporate structure. We are recommending to our shareholders that we unify the dual-listed company or DLC framework into a single company listed solely on the New York Stock Exchange. This aligns with the marketplace. We are aware of 15 dual listed companies or DLCs created over the last 4 decades, including our DLC in 2003. A substantial number of those have been unified in recent years for many of the same reasons we are recommending our unification. Today, we know of only 3 other major DLCs remaining. Under our plan, Carnival plc shareholders would receive Carnival Corporation shares on a one-for-one basis and Carnival plc shares and ADSs would be delisted.

Carnival plc would become a wholly owned U.K. subsidiary of Carnival Corporation. This would create a single global share price, streamline governance and reporting and reduce administrative costs. We believe it will also increase liquidity for stock trades and increase weighting of the stock in major U.S. stock indices. We intend to hold meetings of our shareholders in April to consider the recommendation. Subject to shareholders approving our recommendation, we intend to complete the unification in the second quarter of 2026. Now operator, let's open the call for questions.

