Constellation Energy Corporation (CEG) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 7, 2025 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Emily Duncan
Joseph Dominguez - President, CEO & Director
Daniel Eggers - Executive VP & CFO
James McHugh - Executive VP & Chief Commercial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Shahriar Pourreza - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Steven Fleishman - Wolfe Research, LLC
Jeremy Tonet - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Andrew Weisel - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
David Arcaro - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Agnieszka Storozynski - Seaport Research Partners
James West - Melius Research LLC

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Constellation Energy Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call may be recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's call, Emily Duncan, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Strategic Initiatives. You may begin.

Emily Duncan

Thank you, Olivia. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining Constellation Energy Corporation's third quarter earnings conference call. Leading the call today are Joe Dominguez, Constellation's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Eggers, Constellation's Chief Financial Officer. They are joined by other members of Constellation's senior management team, who will be available to answer your questions following our prepared remarks.

We issued our earnings release this morning along with the presentation, all of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of Constellation's website. The earnings release and other matters, which we discuss during today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates regarding Constellation and its subsidiaries that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ from our forward-looking statements based on factors and assumptions discussed in today's materials and comments made during this call.

Please refer to today's 8-K and Constellation's other SEC filings for discussions of risk factors and other circumstances and considerations that may cause results to differ from management's projections, forecasts and expectations. Today's presentation also includes references to adjusted operating earnings and other non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the information contained in the appendix of our presentation and our earnings release for reconciliations between the non-GAAP measures and the nearest equivalent GAAP measures.

I'll now turn the call over to Joe.

Joseph Dominguez
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Emily, and thanks Olivia, our operator this morning for getting us started. Thanks to all of you for your continued support, for your interest in the company and for joining us today at the end of a very busy week for all of you.

As always, I want to start by thanking the incredible women and men at Constellation for delivering another quarter of strong operational and financial performance. Powering America is a 24/7 business, and our continued success derives from the simple fact that our folks are exceptional at what they do. This summer, our nuclear plants delivered near-perfect reliability. Our power fleet of gas and renewables answered the bell when dispatched and our commercial and retail teams have once again proven why they are some of the best in the business.

I'm going to turn to Slide 5 to get us started with our financial results. We delivered third quarter GAAP earnings of $2.97 per share and adjusted operating earnings of $3.04 per share, higher than the third quarter of last year. Our commercial and generation teams delivered outstanding performance and the stock has performed tremendously again this year, benefiting you, our owners. But this great performance also benefits our people through stock compensation plans that we have aligned with your interest as owners. This year, because of the magnificent performance over a number of years, these plans are triggered and create some nonrecurring O&M headwinds that Dan will cover in his section.

But notwithstanding these onetime events, what I don't want you to miss is the continued growth and strong performance of our business. On the data economy front, our team has never been more active with serious and knowledgeable customers. I know in the last call, I hinted that we are far along on a transaction, making use of a baseball metaphor that we were past the seventh-inning stretch. That remains true, and we continue to progress. But as we have recently witnessed in real life baseball and as I'm sure, Dodgers and Blue Jays fans, especially can attest, some of the later innings can seemingly drag out. Nonetheless, we're confident in our ability to complete these transactions, and we will let you know just as soon as we can.

But perhaps more important to you than any set of transactions is what we are seeing in the broader data economy market. Our general observation is that the market is hotter now than ever. And the real big difference we're seeing is buyer maturity. In the earliest days, we had a great deal of interest from a lot of customers. But I think it's fair to say in retrospect that many customers in the early days were exploring options, kicking tires, as some might say. Sometimes, they were wondering whether nuclear energy would fit into their own sustainability plans. And even the most serious buyers were still on the shallow part of the learning curve when it came to understanding our markets and the interconnection of really large loads.

Today, we're seeing a far more sophisticated and aggressive customer walk through our door. They have done deals. They understand pricing and term. They know they want nuclear. They understand the accounting and the collateral needs of a large transaction. They understand the interconnection process. Most importantly, they walk in our door with a strong understanding of what we can offer and what we need to secure on behalf of our owners and therefore, how to best execute.

At the end of the day, we are often paced by the speed of interconnection in these deals. But in terms of our own commercial terms, the negotiations move much more quickly than ever before.

Now with regard to the interconnection process, we were encouraged to see the letter from Secretary Wright to FERC, ordering FERC to initiate a rule-making proceeding to develop a standard approach for quickly connecting large loads to the transmission system. It was a clear message from the administration. If America is going to maintain a leadership position in artificial intelligence, we need practical reforms to make it easier to connect large loads to the grid. As you know, this is something we have been saying for a long time. We look forward to FERC's quick action. They have a docket in PJM that is complete with evidence and with arguments. It's ready for decision.

Turning to other developments this quarter. We reached a landmark agreement with the state of Maryland and other key stakeholders that lays out the path for the continued operation of Conowingo Dam for the next 50 years. On Slide 5, you can see a picture of the stakeholders that gathered together with Governor Moore and others to celebrate this outcome. You see the handsome guy in the middle of the photograph and to my right, is Governor Moore. This was a win-win outcome. It brought together previously opposed coalitions to create a long-term solution that helps and protects the bay, while ensuring the continued operations of a vital source of Maryland Clean Energy for the region. I want to thank Governor Moore and Attorney General Brown for their leadership. We look forward to continuing to work with them and other elected officials to explore energy options for Maryland and the region.

Lastly, Calpine remains on track to close in the fourth quarter. The DOJ is our final approval, and we presently are not seeing any effect on their work from the government shutdown. We're looking forward to getting the transaction closed, and to start working as a combined company to bring coast-to-coast solutions for our customers and to create value for you, our owners and for our communities.

Turning to Slide 6. The momentum and support for nuclear has never been stronger. Nearly 3/4 of the public now supports nuclear energy. But it doesn't stop there. 9 out of 10 people think that the licenses on existing nuclear plants should be extended, and you know we're doing that work. And 2 out of 3 people believe we should be building more nuclear plants in the U.S. This is a tremendous level of public support. The public gets it and so do the policymakers. I'd point out to you that just in the last 10 days, the Trump administration and Westinghouse announced a public private partnership with the goal of building 10 gigawatts of new nuclear reactors. And the government is pledging $80 billion to help ensure it happens.

Our nation recently announced a trade deal with Japan and the centerpiece of that was the investment of more capital in nuclear and the data economy. And then finally, NextEra, a company known for renewables announced the restart of Duane Arnold, all enabled by another contract with hyperscalers. And that's just what happened in the last 10 days, and it builds upon the bipartisan support that we've seen for nuclear tax credits that not only support new nuclear, but crucially support the existing fleet so that it could continue to operate, uprate and relicense.

States are also leading the way through ZEC and other programs to ensure that clean, reliable nuclear power continues to benefit their citizens. Under Governor Hochul's leadership in New York, the state is looking to build 1 gigawatt of new nuclear built on a foundation of the new -- of the existing nuclear fleet that has been so successful for New York. The Public Service Commission has called for the extension of the ZEC programs, and we are involved in that proceeding. All of these developments are wonderful and a great affirmation of what I think has been the core principle of this company from its beginning.

Nuclear energy is the most valuable and important energy commodity in the world today, and Constellation produces more of it than any other private sector company in the world. But our advantage doesn't just stop with the existing fleet. I think the most valuable asset that we have, that presently isn't fully recognized is the nuclear sites themselves. This is the place where nuclear was built. It's the place where we have the infrastructure, the land, the capability and the talent to build the next generation of nuclear plants. These land assets that Constellation owns more than anyone provides unique value that is difficult, if not impossible, to replicate. And what it means to me is that the path to new nuclear in many places is going to walk through Constellation.

Turning to Slide 7. Constellation has had an excellent track record, as you know, of working with stakeholders to find solutions. And we once again stepped up to meet the needs of the grid by answering Maryland's call with options for the state to consider that would bring new dispatchable generation resources to the state as well as the continued operation and expansion of the world's best 24/7 clean energy resources. As part of the Next Generation Energy Act of 2025, the Maryland Public Service Commission solicited applications for dispatchable generation and large capacity resources that could proceed through an expedited process known as a CPCN or Certificate of Public Necessity. In response, we're providing Maryland options to potentially bring up to 800 megawatts of battery storage and more than 700 megawatts of low-carbon natural gas to help Maryland meet its future energy needs.

Being part of the solution is who we are at Constellation, and no other company is doing more to bring and secure power for our communities than Constellation. As you know, we've committed to bring 835 megawatts through the restart of the Crane Clean Energy Center. We continue to provide nearly 600 megawatts from the relicensing of Conowingo that we spoke about a moment ago. We are bringing 160 megawatts of new nuclear uprates online at Byron and Braidwood beginning next year, and we're doing far more than this.

As we talked about last quarter, we're collaborating with customers to pioneer about 1,000 megawatts of AI-enabled demand response capacity. We're targeting 500 megawatts under contract this year and another 500 next year. And we have identified an additional 900 megawatts of uprates at our sites, including 190 megawatts at Calvert Cliffs in Maryland.

Constellation has and will continue to support reliability everywhere and operate in our competitive markets, effectively and performing well. And we have seen that over a decade since deregulation with generators, the competitive market has provided the best solutions to customers.

With that, I'm going to turn it over to Dan for the financial results.

Daniel Eggers
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Joe, and good morning, everyone. Beginning on Slide 8, we earned $2.97 per share in GAAP earnings and $3.04 per share in adjusted operating earnings in the third quarter, which was $0.30 per share higher than last year. In the third quarter, we saw fewer nuclear outage days, both planned and unplanned compared to the same period last year. These results reflect the outstanding efforts of our teams whose dedication and skill have driven higher generation volumes and help us operate more efficiently than ever with lower O&M expenses on a year-over-year basis.

Last quarter marked the first period where we recognized a full 3 months of higher PJM capacity revenues following the breakout 2025, 2026 capacity auction. With our plants currently near or above the top end of the PTC zone, the non-CMC units captured almost all of the benefit of higher capacity prices. This capacity upside is partially offset by a reduction in PTC revenues compared to last year when more of our plants were in the PTC zone. Additionally, ZEC prices in both the Midwest and New York were lower compared to the third quarter of last year.

As a reminder, for the full year 2025, our Illinois ZEC revenues are about the same as last year, but the timing is different since we booked banked ZECs last quarter, whereas in 2024, more of the ZECs were booked across the quarters.

Moving to Slide 9. Our nuclear team continues to execute at levels of reliability and with a commitment to excellence that yields differentiated operating performance. During the third quarter, they once again hit that mark with a fleet-wide capacity factor of 96.8%. Our team consistently delivers a capacity factor about 4% higher than the industry average, which at our fleet size is the equivalent to having another reactor's worth of power on a full year basis.

Our renewable and natural gas fleets performed near plan during the quarter, with renewable energy capture at 96.8% and power dispatch match at 95.5%. Consistent, reliable and excellent operations across our generation fleet, especially during the critical summer months, are a testament to the thousands of tasks and hours of planning, our teams complete on an ongoing basis to make sure we can meet our commitment to provide clean, firm and reliable power.

Turning to Slide 10. Our commercial team continues to meet the needs of our customers, delivering tailored energy solutions that meet their evolving needs. This collaborative approach is driving strong performance with sales margins above the long-term averages we use in our forecast and above the margins we anticipated at the beginning of this year. The renewal rates for both power and gas remained strong. The quarter-over-quarter decline we experienced in our C&I gas renewal rate is almost entirely driven by the loss of one very large, low-margin customer and expected part of the normal ebbs and flows of the business.

Our relationships with long-standing customers remain strong and our scale and ability to deliver products to meet the needs of our customers remains a competitive advantage.

Continuing on Slide 11. We are narrowing our full year stand-alone adjusted operating earnings guidance range to $9.05 to $9.45 per share. The commercial and generation businesses have had another outstanding year. Our commercial team's ability to optimize the portfolio and deliver value beyond targets is a key driver again this year. Additionally, the world-class operating performance of our nuclear fleet has also contributed upside to our gross margin. This operational strength reinforces the reliability and consistency of our company's earnings profile.

Our stock has appreciated over 50% year-to-date, significantly benefiting our owners, but also creating O&M headwinds from stock compensation, which is offsetting much of the gross margin favorability this year.

Finally, as a reminder, our revised guidance is stand-alone to Constellation and does not include any impacts from the Calpine transaction.

Speaking of guidance and looking to 2026 with the Calpine deal, we get a lot of questions on what to expect. We plan to provide combined company guidance and modeling tools on or around our typical fourth quarter call in late February. We expect to fold Calpine into our current base and enhanced EPS constructs. And as you all revisit your models in the interim, let me remind you when we announced the transaction in January, we provided preliminary expectations for EPS and free cash flow accretion. Those expectations were based on forward power prices and spreads that look relatively similar to today despite the market having moved around a lot since last December.

Calpine also has a history of locking in sales or hedging its fleet like other generators to ensure meeting its financial commitments. So near-term open exposure is relatively limited. And the guidance included our view of expected synergies, which, as we talked about, were not a major value driver for this deal, but were anticipated based on what we knew about putting the 2 companies together, and recognizing Calpine was long held by private equity outside of the public markets. It also reflected estimates for accounting policy harmonization adjustments and purchase accounting with fair value calculations, which are inherently difficult to model from your seats.

We will fill in all the details when we get to early spring. But I know it has been a little while since the deal was announced. So we thought a quick refresh back to our original conversation would be helpful for all of you.

Turning to Slide 12. In September, we executed a renewal and upsizing of our credit facilities, positioning us for the close of the Calpine transaction. Combining the expanded revolver with the other liquidity tools that we use, we'll have $14 billion of liquidity after the deal closes, underscoring the strength of our balance sheet and the strategic flexibility afforded by our investment-grade credit rating allowing us to move forward with confidence.

We're also asked regularly about our capital allocation strategy after the deal closes, and it remains unchanged. With the significant free cash flow the combined company is expected to generate, our priorities remain clear. We will maintain a strong balance sheet and high investment-grade credit ratings targeting a return to our metrics by year-end 2027, deliver at least 10% annual dividend growth, pursue growth opportunities that meet our double-digit unlevered return threshold, and return capital to shareholders with $600 million remaining on our existing buyback program.

Our goal remains the same: to deliver long-term value for our owners. The philosophy behind our capital allocation strategy is consistent even as we evolve into a larger, more diversified company with even greater opportunities.

With that, I'll turn the call back to Joe for his closing remarks.

Joseph Dominguez
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Dan. So folks Constellation performed very well during the third quarter and throughout the year. But we've got 2 months basically to finish it up. And so we've got a lot of work going on in the business, and we remain focused on closing the Calpine transaction and bringing together these 2 great companies. We're looking forward to proving that 1 plus 1 will equal 3. And that the size and scale of the combined company will deliver value for our customers and for our nation that neither company could have done on its own.

We're working hard to execute transactions with our customers in the data economy. And we're working with the states and regulators to provide sensible solutions for meeting this moment where new generation and new capabilities are going to be needed to allow America to lead as it should on AI.

Constellation is built on a foundation unlike any other company in the energy sector. That foundation enables us to consistently deliver value to our owners year after year. We generate strong cash flow and base earnings supported by a nuclear production tax credit, which continues to enjoy broad and growing bipartisan support. We have a strong earnings growth profile through the decade, and we are in the middle of strategic transactions or PPAs with hyperscalers, which we expect to complete, which will be additive to both our growth and our base earnings.

We benefit uniquely from higher inflation, which causes the PTC floor to automatically adjust and further strengthens the economics of our nuclear fleet. We're well positioned to capture value from the opportunities ahead, selling our megawatts at a premium through long-term contracts with customers, including those in the rapidly expanding data economy, which we've talked about quite a bit during this call.

As overall power demand grows and new generation resources are required, our existing fleet is ready to meet the needs with clean, reliable and available today energy, and our land gives us a great opportunity to participate in future development.

With that, I look forward to your questions.