Citizens Financial Group, Inc. (CFG) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 21, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Kristin Silberberg - Head of Investor Relations
Bruce Van Saun - CEO & Chairman of the Board
Aunoy Banerjee - Executive VP & CFO
Donald McCree - Chair of Commercial Banking
Brendan Coughlin - President & Vice Chair

Conference Call Participants

Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
L. Erika Penala - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Manan Gosalia - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Girard Sweeney
Matthew O'Connor - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Ebrahim Poonawala - BofA Securities, Research Division
David Chiaverini - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Christopher McGratty - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Kenneth Usdin - Bernstein Autonomous LLP

Presentation

Operator

Welcome, and thank you for standing by. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Kristin Silberberg. Thank you. You may begin.

Kristin Silberberg
Head of Investor Relations

Thanks, Julie. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. First, this morning, our Chairman and CEO, Bruce Van Saun; and CFO, Aunoy Banerjee, will provide an overview of our fourth quarter and full year results. Brendan Coughlin, our President; and Don McCree, our Chair of Commercial Banking, are also here to provide additional color.

We will be referencing our fourth quarter and full year presentation located on our Investor Relations website. After the presentation, we will be happy to take questions. Our comments today will include forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our results to differ materially from expectations. These are outlined for your review in the presentation. We also reference non-GAAP financial measures, so it's important to review our GAAP results in the presentation and the reconciliations in the appendix.

And with that, I will hand it over to Bruce.

Bruce Van Saun
CEO & Chairman of the Board

Okay. Thanks, Kristin, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining our call today. We were pleased to finish the year with another strong quarter. Our financial results were paced by net interest margin expansion of 7 basis points, strong wealth and capital markets fees, positive operating leverage of 1.3% sequential and 5.2% year-on-year, favorable credit trends and a robust balance sheet across capital, liquidity and funding.

We are executing well on our strategic initiatives. Our Private Bank finished the year with $14.5 billion in deposits, $10 billion in client assets and $7.2 billion in loans. The business was 7% accretive to pretax income in 2025, ahead of our 5% target. Importantly, we managed this business to a 25% ROE for the year. We continue to grow nicely in New York City Metro and our corporate banking expansion into new geographies, verticals and sponsors is delivering good results.

We made significant progress in running down non-core assets from $6.9 billion at the beginning of the year to $2.5 billion at the end, which included a sale of a student loan portfolio. Our TOP 10 program hit the mark with $100 million plus run rate benefits in Q4.

For the quarter, our EPS was up 8% sequentially and 36% year-over-year. NII is up 9% year-on-year as net interest margin is up 20 basis points and spot loans grew 3%. Fees are up 8% year-on-year, paced by Capital Markets and Wealth. Provision is down $25 million year-on-year as losses reduce on CRE office and credit in general looks good. We retired 3% of our shares in 2025 and delivered an 80% return of capital to shareholders.

For the full year, our EPS of $3.86 was up 19% relative to 2024. We hit most of our line items in the beginning of year guide, which is included on Slide 31. Our expenses were up 4.6% versus the guide of 4% given the fee performance beat and associated incentive compensation and our desire to keep building out Private Bank and Wealth. We delivered positive operating leverage of around 1.25% for the year.

We think -- as we think about 2026, our focus will continue to be strong execution of our strategic initiatives. The biggest new addition will be Reimagine the Bank, which has been launched and is creating real excitement at Citizens. We've included a couple of slides in our presentation on this program.

What I'd like to call out is that the deployment of new technologies and approaches under Reimagine the Bank will deliver meaningful enhancements to customer experience. This will drive some real revenue benefits in addition to the targeted expense efficiency improvements from the program. This program has around 50 initiatives at the outset, but we will add to this over time, providing further upside.

Looking ahead, the macro environment for 2026 should be favorable. We see solid GDP growth, stable unemployment and inflation falling by the end of the year. We project 2 more Fed rate cuts with the yield curve steepening as the 10-year stays anchored around 4.25%. We anticipate the regulatory environment to stay positive. We will look to take some basic steps on stablecoins, but we do not see a big lift off and impact in 2026. Notwithstanding several of our peers gauging on acquisitions, our focus for the foreseeable future remains on our attractive organic growth agenda.

With respect to the 2026 outlook, we expect very strong revenue performance, controlled expenses, significant positive operating leverage and lower credit costs. NII growth of 10% to 12% will be paced by strong continuing NIM expansion and solid loan growth led by Private Bank and C&I. Fees will continue to grow off a strong year in 2025.

The Capital Markets backdrop is highly favorable and Citizens is well positioned. Our Wealth business is in a great position to grow, both with Private Bank customers as well as branch-based customers. Expense growth is projected to be comparable to this year as we seek to maintain the growth rate of the Private Bank. We have been disciplined in ensuring that the Private Bank achieves sustainable growth with attractive returns.

The Reimagine the Bank impact in 2026 will deliver onetime costs of around $50 million versus benefits of $45 million, which are incorporated in this guidance. We do not intend to break out the onetime costs as notables as we've done in the past. Credit costs should continue to improve as the CRE office portfolio continues to be worked out. We continue to see mix improvements delivering benefits to the charge-off and provision rates over time.

We will manage our CET1 ratio to 10.5% to 10.6% throughout 2026. We envision share repurchases of approximately $700 million to $850 million. We also are hopeful that the Fed modeling improvements will meaningfully lower our SCB. We've included some slides on our medium-term outlook and how the drag from our legacy swap portfolio will dissipate with time. We remain confident in our ability to achieve our medium-term 16% to 18% ROTCE target.

To sum up, we are feeling very good about our positioning for the future. Our strategy rests on a transformed consumer bank, the best positioned super regional commercial bank and the aspiration to have the premier bank-owned private bank. We continue to make steady progress, and we'll continue to execute with the financial and operating discipline that you've come to expect from us.

I'd like to end my remarks by thanking our colleagues for rising to the occasion and delivering a great effort in 2025. We know we can count on you again this year.

And with that, let me turn it over to Aunoy for his debut performance. Aunoy?

Aunoy Banerjee
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Bruce. Good morning, everyone. I am excited to be part of team Citizens and to help execute our well-planned strategy. Now turning to our performance. As Bruce indicated, we delivered strong results in 2025 that were in line with our expectations at the beginning of the year. The fourth quarter delivered continued good performance, and we are well positioned for 2026.

Referencing Slides 3 to 7, I will provide some highlights for the full year and the fourth quarter. First, spending a moment on the full year results. We delivered EPS of $3.86 for 2025, up 19% on an underlying basis, and that includes a $0.28 or just over 7% contribution from the Private Bank. Importantly, we also achieved full year positive operating leverage of approximately 125 basis points on an underlying basis.

Net interest income was up 4% as we delivered 13 basis points of margin expansion. Fees were up a strong 11% on an underlying basis, led by record results in both Wealth, up 22%, and Capital Markets, which had a nice pickup in the second half, up 9% year-over-year. Expenses were managed well, up 4.6% on an underlying basis, reflecting the continued investment in the build-out of the Private Bank and Wealth.

We also managed credit well, maintaining strong reserve coverage levels with credit losses coming in line with our expectations at the start of the year. We ended the year in a very strong balance sheet position, maintaining robust capital, strong liquidity levels and a healthy credit reserve.

For the fourth quarter, we generated EPS of $1.13, up 8% linked quarter and 36% year-on-year, and delivered a 12.2% ROTCE. The Private Bank continues to steadily grow its earnings contribution, adding $0.10 to EPS in Q4, up $0.02 linked quarter.

Now I will talk through the fourth quarter results in more detail, starting with net interest income on Slide 8. Net interest income increased 3% linked quarter, driven by a strong expansion of our net interest margin and a 1% increase in average interest-earning assets. Our net interest margin continues to steadily expand, up 7 basis points this quarter to 3.07%. 3 basis points of the margin expansion was driven by the benefits of non-core runoff and reduced impact from the terminated swaps, what we refer to as time-based benefits. The rest was a combination of fixed rate asset repricing and lower funding costs, which was partially offset by lower asset yields.

We continue to do a good job optimizing deposits in a competitive environment. Interest-bearing deposit costs were down 15 basis points, while total deposit costs were down 12 basis points. Our cumulative interest-bearing deposit beta is about 48% through the end of the year.

Moving to Slide 9. Fees are down 2% linked quarter, but up 10% year-over-year on an underlying basis. Our Wealth business delivered another record quarter, driven by continued progress in the Private Bank and strength in the retail network, up 5% linked quarter and 31% year-over-year. These results reflected higher advisory fees with continued positive momentum in fee-based AUM growth, including strong inflows from the conversion of private wealth lift-outs as well as market appreciation.

Capital Markets delivered its third best quarter ever, up 16% year-over-year, though down 16% compared with the exceptionally strong third quarter. Several M&A and equity deals were pushed into '26 given the impacts associated with the government shutdown. As a result, we expect roughly $20 million of related fees to be recognized in the first quarter. Despite deals pushing into '26, our equity underwriting performance was still up nicely linked quarter and up significantly year-over-year. Loan syndication fees were very strong this quarter, driven by refinance activity. And bond underwriting fees were solid, although lower than the very strong third quarter.

We continue to perform well in the league tables, ranking second in the fourth quarter and fourth for the full year on both volume and number of deals for middle market sponsored loan syndications. And our deal pipeline across M&A, debt and equity Capital Markets remain strong.

On Slide 10, expenses are up 0.6% on a sequential basis, largely reflecting continued investment in the build-out of the Private Bank and Private Wealth and higher incentive compensation. Disciplined expense management and strong revenues resulted in approximately 79 basis points of improvement in our efficiency ratio to 62%. Our TOP 10 program achieved $100 million of pretax run rate benefit exiting the year, and we have launched our Reimagine the Bank initiative, which I will discuss in more detail shortly.

On Slide 11, average and period-end loans were up 1% or up 2% excluding the non-core portfolio runoff of roughly $500 million in the quarter. We saw solid loan growth across each of the businesses as non-core runoff and balance sheet optimization impacts lessen. The Private Bank delivered solid loan growth again this quarter with period-end loans up about $1.2 billion, driven by a pickup in sponsor line utilization along with growth in multifamily and residential mortgage.

Commercial loans were up slightly on a spot basis, driven by net new money originations in corporate banking and higher commercial line utilization, partially offset by CRE paydowns. We continue to reduce CRE balances, which were down about 4% this quarter and 10% for the year. And retail loans saw some nice growth driven by home equity and mortgage.

Next, on Slides 12 and 13, we continue to do a good job on deposits with noninterest-bearing balances up 2%, maintaining a steady mix at 22% of the book, even as our total spot deposits increased approximately 2% to $183 billion. Average deposits were also up 2%, or $3.9 billion, driven by growth in the Private Bank, commercial and retail. Private Bank deposits reached $14.5 billion at the end of the year, including some larger flows towards the end of the quarter.

We continue to focus on optimizing our deposit funding costs, reducing the average rate paid across all businesses, driving interest-bearing deposit costs down 15 basis points linked quarter. This, combined with the growth in noninterest-bearing deposits, helped to drive our total deposit costs down 12 basis points. And importantly, our noninterest-bearing and low-cost deposit mix increased to 43%, and our stable retail deposits are 65% of our total deposits, which compares to a peer average of about 55%.

Moving to credit on Slide 14. Credit continues to trend favorably with net charge-offs coming in at 43 basis points, down from 46 basis points in the prior quarter. Nonaccrual loans are down slightly linked quarter, driven by a decrease in commercial real estate. Criticized balances also continued to decline.

Turning to the allowance for credit losses on Slide 15. The allowance was down slightly to 1.53% this quarter as the portfolio mix continues to improve due to non-core runoff, the reduction in the CRE portfolio and lower loss content front book originations across C&I and retail real estate secured. The economic forecast supporting the allowance is relatively stable with the prior quarter. And as we look broadly across the portfolio, the credit outlook looks good.

The general office portfolio continues to work out as expected, and we maintain a robust allowance of 10.8% coverage. Importantly, the cumulative charge-off plus the current reserve translates to a total expected lifetime loss rate of about 20% against the March '23 loan balance, and that level has been consistent with our view for the past year.

Moving to Slide 16. We maintained excellent balance sheet strength. Our CET1 ratio is 10.6%, and adjusting for the AOCI opt-out removal, our CET1 ratio increased to 9.5%. We returned a total of $326 million to shareholders in the fourth quarter with $201 million in common dividends and $125 million of share repurchases. For 2025, we returned $1.4 billion, or 80% of our 2025 earnings, to shareholders. We repurchased $600 million of common stock at an average price of $44.55, representing about 3% of outstanding shares at the beginning of the year. Our tangible book value per share increased to $38.07, up $1.34 or 4% sequentially, with full year growth of $5.73 per share or 18% year-over-year.

Moving to Slide 17 through 20. We are well positioned to drive strong performance over the medium term with our overall focused strategy, a transformed consumer bank, the best-positioned super regional commercial bank and our aspiration to build the premier bank-owned private bank and private wealth franchise.

The Private Bank continues to make excellent progress, as you see on Slides 19 and 20. We exceeded our balance sheet targets and delivered full year earnings of $0.28, contributing a little over 7% to EPS in 2025, well ahead of our original projection of 5%. The Private Bank delivered strong deposit growth again this quarter, ending the year at $14.5 billion. Importantly, the overall deposit mix continues to be very attractive with about 36% in noninterest-bearing at the end of the year.

We also delivered strong loan growth in the quarter, adding roughly $1 billion of loans to end the year at $7.2 billion. Since the launch of the Private Bank in '23, we have added 10 wealth teams to our platform with more in the pipeline. We ended the year with $10 billion of total client assets, reflecting the continued strong conversion rates of the wealth hires. We have more runway here, and we plan to continue adding top quality teams in key geographies.

Given the investments we have made and our plans to further expand the Private Bank in '26, we think deposits can grow to $18 billion to $20 billion, loans in the range of $11 billion to $13 billion and client assets $16 billion to $20 billion. We expect this growth will help drive an increase in Private Bank's earnings contribution to mid-teens in the medium term while maintaining a 20% to 25% ROE profile.

Moving to Slides 21 and 22. We have launched our firm-wide Reimagine the Bank initiative. The objective is to position Citizens for long-term success by embracing a host of new innovative technologies across the bank and simplifying our business model, which will reshape our customer experience and drive a meaningful improvement in productivity and efficiency.

Slide 21 will give you a sense for the scope of the effort, which spans nearly every part of the bank. Slide 22 lays out our financial targets for the program. For 2026, we expect to minimize the EPS impact of onetime costs and capital investments by prioritizing initiatives with faster paybacks. There will be about $50 million of front-loaded onetime costs that will be effectively offset by $45 million of benefits to be realized later in the year.

The program will drive positive net benefits in '27 that we expect will accelerate in '28, and we are targeting fully phased-in pretax run rate benefits of approximately $450 million as we exit 2028. Roughly 2/3 of these benefits are tied to expense efficiencies, which equate to about 5% of our full year 2025 expense base. Importantly, we are confident that the financial benefits of Reimagine the Bank will be additive to the 16% to 18% ROTCE targets we expect to achieve in the second half of ' 27.

Moving to Slide 23. I will take you through our full year '26 outlook, which contemplates a forward curve with two 25 basis point Fed cuts, one in June and other in September, ending the year with Fed funds approaching 3% to 3.25% and a 10-year treasury rate anchored around 4.25%. We expect NII to be up 10% to 12% with NIM expanding about 4 to 5 basis points a quarter towards 3.25% in 4Q '26. Loan growth is expected to pick up this year with spot loans up 3% to 5%, average loans up 2.5% to 3.5% and overall earning assets up 4% to 5%.

Non-interest income is expected to be up 6% to 8%, driven primarily by wealth and capital markets. We are projecting expenses to be up 4.5% as we are confident in our revenue outlook, and we plan to maintain our investments in growth initiatives. This translates to a 2026 full year operating leverage in excess of 500 basis points.

We have provided a walk showing the key components of our '26 expense growth on Slide 24. Credit is projected to continue to improve through the year with our outlook for net charge-offs in the mid- to high 30s basis points. Along with these credit trends, the improving credit trends, the portfolio mix will also continue to improve. And finally, we expect to end the year with strong CET1 ratio of 10.5% to 10.6%.

We expect to generate a substantial amount of capital, which will put us in an excellent position to push forward with our strategic priorities while returning a substantial amount of capital to shareholders. Notwithstanding anticipated strong loan growth, we expect to repurchase $700 million to $850 million in shares this year. Full year 2026 earnings incorporates a nice lift from the continued growth of the Private Bank.

On Slide 25, we provide the guide for the first quarter. Note that the first quarter has seasonal impacts on revenue with lower day count impacting net interest income, taxes on the FICA reset and compensation payouts impacting expenses. Fees are normally softer in the first quarter, but we are expecting a strong performance from capital markets after incorporating the deals that were pushed from the fourth quarter.

Moving to Slides 26 to 28. Looking out over the medium term, we see a clear path to achieving our 16% to 18% ROTCE target in the second half of '27 with further momentum in 2028. Reimagine the Bank benefits will be additive to returns. Expanding our net interest margin is a key driver, which we project to be in the range of 3.30% to 3.50% in 2027, along with the impact of successful execution of our strategic initiatives, improving credit performance and delivering a strong capital return to shareholders.

To wrap up, we delivered a good performance in 2025, in line with our expectations. We have a strong outlook for 2026 with significant margin expansion, good momentum in Wealth as we continue to grow the Private Bank, and we see our ship coming in on Capital Markets given the capabilities that we have built over the years. All of this puts us in a very good position to hit our medium-term 16% to 18% ROTCE target in the second half of '27.

With that, I will hand it back over to Bruce.

Bruce Van Saun
CEO & Chairman of the Board

Okay. Thanks, Aunoy. And I think, operator, we're ready to open it up for Q&A.

