Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Sijie Lin from CICC.

Sijie Lin
China International Capital Corporation Limited, Research Division

[Interpreted] Sijie Lin from CCC. Could you please speak more about how will the high-quality development strategy be executed?

Junjie Zhang
CEO & Chairman of the Board

[Interpreted] Thank you for your question. Regarding our high-quality development strategy, we have a clear execution path across 4 core dimensions: brand, product, experience and channels. First, in high-value brand building, we're upgrading our brand to speed up the launch of brand experience, Teahealth and streamline the customer journey. At the same time, we're growing specialty houses like tea culture theme locations and intangible culture heritage theme teahouses to deepen our cultural rules and highlight what makes the brand stand out.

Meanwhile, we are building a high-quality product system with 4 core priorities. First, we will define and uphold strict premium tea centers. Second, we'll enhance our core raw materials. Third, we will improve food quality from end to end. Finally, we will introduce the 4.0 menu and guarantee uniform quality for all customers wherever they are.

Next, we are driving cross-category innovation and new consumption scenarios. With the 4.0 menu, we're adding exciting new categories like special tea to make things up. We're also expanding into additional consumption scenarios, including breakfast and evening hours to improve store utilization across different times. In addition, we'll fine-tune how products are shown while they are being prepared to make the experience even better for customers.

We're also enhancing the membership experience with the revamped membership system to build a true member community in a mutual benefit network. This will boost the stickiness and repeat purchases for our 222 million members. At the same time, we're optimizing store facilities and technologies to improve efficiency and customer satisfaction.

Finally, we're reshaping a strong channeled strategy. Our teahouse network is expanding at a healthy pace with 300 new teahouses added this quarter, and we will maintain a steady place to teahouse expansion. We're also pushing ahead with standout flagship teahouses such as the Chagee Teahouse in Hong Kong and the product store at 2025 Rolex Shanghai Masters. These showcases really highlight what the brand stands for and enhance our brand awareness.

Operator

Our next question comes from Xiaopo Wei of Citigroup.

Xiaopo Wei
Citigroup Inc., Research Division

[Interpreted] Could you share more color on the overseas network -- overseas market network expansion as well as a store operating in the non-China regions?

Hongfei Huang
Chief Financial Officer

All right. Thank you, Xiaopo. So our overseas markets are a pivotal growth driver. The momentum is solid across our channels. This quarter, we entered into the 2 new markets, Philippines and Vietnam. While our store count in Malaysia has exceeded 200 currently. So this is a big milestone. Our local operations are showing strong signal. Our localized products and the marketing campaigns will achieve the greatest success.

So for example, our September collaboration with Pop Mart generated a tremendous response across the Southeast Asia. In Malaysia, the Green Grab series made up 50% of cups sold on the first day, making our all-time high. So during the campaign first week, teahouses in Singapore achieved average daily sales of over 500 cups of the product. Our Peach Oolong Milk Tea also performed exceptionally well. It captured over 30% of cups sold in Indonesia within 15 days since launch and about 16% in Thailand, making a top seller in both markets.

So this successful localization efforts, combined with our steady store expansion pace giving -- give us strong confidence in overseas growth in Southeast Asia. So moving forward, we will continue to deepen our presence in those markets we've entered. Steadily expand into new markets and keep improved per store profitability and the brand impact.

Operator

As there are no further questions, I would like to hand the conference back to management for closing remarks.

Alicia Guo

Thank you again for joining our call today. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us or request through our IR website. We look forward to our next call with everyone. Have a great day.

Operator

Today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Portions of this transcript that are marked [Interpreted] were spoken by an interpreter present on the live call.]