Ciena Corporation (CIEN) Q3 2025 Earnings Call September 4, 2025 8:30 AM EDT


Company Participants

Gregg Lampf - Vice President of Investor Relations
Gary Smith - CEO, President & Director
Marc Graff - Senior VP & CFO
Scott McFeely - Executive Advisor


Conference Call Participants

George Notter - Wolfe Research, LLC
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Meta Marshall - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Ruben Roy - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Simon Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Timothy Long - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Timothy Savageaux - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division
Amit Daryanani - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Karl Ackerman - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division
Ryan Koontz - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division


Presentation


Operator

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Ciena's Fiscal Third Quarter 2025 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please also note, today's event is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference call over to Mr. Gregg Lampf, Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, please go ahead.


Gregg Lampf
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Jamie. Good morning, and welcome to Ciena's 2025 Fiscal Third Quarter Conference Call. On the call today is Gary Smith, President and CEO. And with us here today for the first time is Marc Graff, who officially joined Ciena as CFO on August 1. Welcome, Marc. We look forward to introducing you to our investment community in person over the coming weeks and months. Scott McFeely, Executive Adviser, is also with us for Q&A.

In addition to this call and the press release, we have posted to the Investors section of our website an accompanying investor presentation that reflects this discussion as well as certain highlighted items from the quarter. Our comments today speak to our recent performance, our view on current market dynamics and drivers of our business as well as a discussion of our financial outlook. Today's discussion includes certain adjusted or non-GAAP measures of Ciena's results of operations. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to our GAAP results is included in today's press release.

Before turning the call over to Gary, I'll remind you that during this call, we'll be making certain forward-looking statements. Such statements, including our quarterly and annual guidance, commentary on market dynamics and discussion of our long-term opportunities and strategy are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions regarding the company and its markets, which include risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the statements discussed today. Assumptions relating to our outlook, whether mentioned on this call or included in the investor presentation that we posted earlier today are important part of our forward-looking statements, and we encourage you to consider them.

Our forward-looking statements should also be viewed in the context of the risk factors detailed in our most recent 10-K and our 10-Q, which we expect to file with the SEC later today. Ciena assumes no obligation to update the information discussed in this conference call, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. As always, we'll allow for as much Q&A as possible today, though we ask that you limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Gary.


Gary Smith
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Gregg, and good morning, everyone. I'd like to start by welcoming Marc to Ciena and to today's call. We're excited to have you onboard and look forward to the value and experience you'll bring in leading our finance organization and our global financial strategy moving forward.

Now let me turn to the quarter's results. We had another really strong quarter across the board. Q3 '25 revenue was $1.22 billion, above the top end of our guidance. Importantly, as we focus on driving increased profitability, we delivered quarterly adjusted EPS of $0.67, up 60% sequentially and 91% year-over-year. This really demonstrating our expanded operating leverage from our business. I would characterize demand during the quarter as continuing to be broad-based and durable across both Cloud Provider and Service Provider segments. In fact, we had two 10% customers in the quarter, including one global cloud provider and one Tier 1 service provider, really underscoring our diversified strength and momentum.

Further evidence of strong demand was in our Q3 order book, which was again considerably above revenue and, in fact, set a new quarterly record for us. This function increase in orders we've seen in recent quarters really underscores how the Network is now fundamental to the underpinning growth and monetization of AI. At a strategic level, for cloud providers to monetize their substantial AI investments in LLMs and GPUs and related data center infrastructure, they need to invest in the network infrastructure that interconnect data centers or they risk stranding their massive investments.

Quite simply, AI enablement and adoption is only achieved when data is moved beyond the data center by the network to end customers. Whether for training or inferring, these data center investments need to be interconnected by cutting-edge, low-latency, high-speed connectivity solutions. This is a powerful combination that requires the scaling up of system rack density, scaling out between racks within the data center and scaling across with connectivity between data centers. This will entail a multiyear investment effort on a truly global scale. And this growing focus on high-speed connectivity plays directly to our core strengths and value proposition.

Our portfolio, as you know, including WaveLogic Technologies, the RLS platform, the Navigator Domain Controller and our Interconnect Solutions continue to be recognized as the industry standard for AI network infrastructure, solidifying our role as a critical enabler in this transformation. And with an 18- to 24-month lead with WaveLogic 6 and RLS, we clearly have the world's most advanced technology. When coupled with our global customer relationships, this means that Ciena is best positioned to serve these opportunities.

Now let's return to our customer highlights, starting with cloud providers. Cloud providers continue to invest in AI at an unprecedented pace, with many announcing over the past quarter their intent to increase their expected spend on AI for future quarters and years beyond. Here, I'd like to update you on our progress with 2 industry-first wins with cloud providers that we signaled last quarter. The first win is for the scale across architecture that I just mentioned. More specifically, this is a dedicated AI infrastructure project related to training and the interconnection of geographically distributed regional GPU clusters. This North American-based project is the industry's first dedicated build for this use case and is comprised of our RLS platform and the WaveLogic 6 Nano 800-gig ZR plug from our Interconnects portfolio. Initial revenue shipments are underway, and we expect this to ramp to hundreds of millions of dollars over the next several quarters.

Second of these wins that I'd like to highlight is for a focused application inside the data center for out-of-band work management, a solution we have shorthanded as DCOM. We co-developed this solution with a hyperscaler, which allows them to streamline the installation and management of its large-scale data center operations, improving scalability and reducing power and space. We also now have significant orders in-house for this application. Overall, we have increasingly strong partnerships with all of the major hyperscalers, driving increased demand for our industry-leading technology in these AI infrastructure builds.

In Q3, another major hyperscaler placed its first large order for 400ZR+ pluggables, establishing Ciena as the lead supplier of this technology for this customer. Consequently, we are on track to meet our expectations to at least double revenue year-over-year for our Interconnects portfolio in 2025. We now also believe that we're likely to be in a position to at least double and more our Interconnects revenue again in FY '26.

I want to mention here that there is another sizable emerging group of cloud providers beyond the 4 to 5 large well-known hyperscalers. This diverse group of network operators is now generally being referred to as neo-scalers, a term which is inclusive of AI compute specialists such as GPU-as-a-service provider, cloud and edge service providers and smaller data center and co-location providers. As they build and scale their own infrastructure, neo-scalers are strategically positioned to leverage AI traffic growth, distributed compute and automation, creating significant opportunities for Ciena globally over time and adding to the durability of the demand. In fact, we've already secured multiple new wins with these cutting-edge neo-scalers, and we see this as a rapidly expanding new market for Ciena.

Turning now to Service Providers, really on trend with the last few quarters, we continue to see more steady and sustainable investment patterns, both in North America and internationally. And in fact, 3 of our top 5 customers in Q3 were service providers. This includes renewed investment in building out their core infrastructure, in part driven by strong demand from cloud providers for Managed Optical Fiber Networks or MOFN. It also reflects strong enterprise demand pull-through and Service Providers' increasing focus on the role they can play in delivering AI to the edge as more enterprises move workloads to the cloud and AI-driven applications get adopted over time. It is clear that both our cloud and service provider customers are focusing their network investments where bandwidth and network scale are critical to support and enable AI traffic growth to drive monetization and adoption. This dynamic is reinforcing the significance of the current and long-term opportunity for both our Systems business and our Interconnects portfolio, including over time for inside the data center.

To ensure we can take full advantage of those growth opportunities and as part of our regular review of our overall product portfolio, we recently made decisions to align our strategic investments on our Coherent Optical Systems, Interconnects, Coherent Routing and Innovative Solutions like our data center out-of-band management solution, which I mentioned earlier.

To that end, we will be redirecting additional R&D investment into these technologies and away from our residential broadband access portfolio, given the larger customer priorities for AI-driven and cloud network investments over the next several years.

To be clear, we will continue to sell and support our existing broadband access products. However, we will be limiting forward investments only to strategic areas such as DCOM.

I'll now hand over to Marc for a closer look at our Q3 performance and our business outlook. Marc?


Marc Graff
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you, Gary, and good morning, everyone. Let me start by saying how excited I am to join Gary and the rest of the team to capitalize on the tremendous opportunities ahead for the company. While only a month in, my enthusiasm has only grown as I found my new colleagues both focused and determined, our technology portfolio world-class and the company's cultured center on delighting our customers. Moreover, Ciena and its owners have benefited greatly from Jim Moylan's leadership and guidance as well as the strong financial foundation he's built. As I look to build upon that strong foundation, my concentration will be on driving incremental value creation for our owners.

While learning continues, my initial areas of focus will be structurally improving our gross margin performance, establishing world-class working capital management practices and a continuing focus on our capital allocation policies, which will prioritize organic investment in our product and technology road map, ensuring adequate capital available for inorganic accretion and returning excess free cash flow to our owners. And I plan to continue advancing the operational efficiencies already underway.

Lastly, I will be reviewing our framework and approach to providing long-term financial targets.

With that, let me recap our strong fiscal third quarter performance. Revenue of $1.22 billion exceeded the high end of our guidance, up 8% sequentially and nearly 30% year-over-year, with a strong showing in our RLS optical products and Routers and Switches. Adjusted gross margin in Q3 was 41.9%, 90 basis points above our guidance, primarily driven by benefits from sales of previously reserved material and lower net tariff impacts. Adjusted operating expense in Q3 was $380 million. This was higher than expected, driven entirely by incentive compensation associated with strong order performance and our continued strong overall financial performance in fiscal '25. When adjusted for these impacts, we remain on track to meet our base OpEx spending level for the full year.

With regard to profitability measures in Q3, we delivered adjusted operating margin of 10.7%, up 270 basis points year-on-year. Adjusted net income was $96 million and adjusted EPS was $0.67, up 91% year-on-year. In addition, we generated $174 million in cash from operations and a free cash flow margin of 11%. Adjusted EBITDA was $158 million or 13% of revenue. We ended the quarter with approximately $1.4 billion in cash and investments, which included a repurchase of 1 million shares for $81.8 million in the third quarter, which brought our year-to-date share repurchases to $245 million. And we expect to repurchase another $85 million in fiscal Q4 to bring the total share repurchase to $330 million for the fiscal year or about 1/3 of our current authorization.

Before I get to guidance, let me provide a brief update on tariffs. Last quarter, we told you that we expect to mitigate most of the quarterly tariff impact and believe that the net effect to our bottom line in future quarters would be immaterial. While still a highly fluid environment, Q3 played out slightly better than expected as we gained more clarity on specific tariffs. We continue to work closely with our supply chain and customers to monitor and respond to any changes in the tariff environment. So as I turn to guide, it is against the backdrop of today's tariff regime and any changes would have a resulting impact on our results. Barring any unforeseen changes, we continue to expect the impacts to be immaterial.

Now on to guidance. For the fiscal fourth quarter, we expect to deliver revenue in a range of $1.24 billion to $1.32 billion. We expect Q4 adjusted gross margins to be between 42% and 43%. We believe fiscal Q2 marked the floor for gross margins, and we expect improving trends over the next several quarters. We expect adjusted operating expense in Q4 to be in a range of $390 million to $400 million, reflecting the impacts of continued strong order flow and overall financial performance on incentive compensation.

As Gary noted, subsequent to the close of the quarter, we made the decision to further align our strategic investments toward our Coherent Optical Systems, Interconnects, Coherent Routing and Innovative Solutions like out-of-band Data Center Management Applications or DCOM. As a result of redirecting R&D investments into these technologies and ceasing further development of our 25-gig PON broadband activities, we expect to record a noncash charge in Q4 against in-process R&D with a carrying value of approximately $90 million. This will be adjusted from our GAAP reported earnings.

Further, as we align our investments and as part of a broader effort to drive operating efficiencies, we are implementing a reduction in headcount that impacts approximately 4% to 5% of our workforce, inclusive of the broadband investment shift. This will result in a Q4 restructuring expense of approximately $20 million to cover employee severance and related costs, expected to be paid starting in Q4 and additionally adjusted out from our GAAP reported earnings.

Looking further out, we believe demand to be very durable over the midterm horizon in both our Systems and Interconnect portfolios. This is being borne out by our orders and backlog that provide visibility into the second half of 2026. With this strength and the momentum we're seeing in 2025, we have increased confidence to provide a preliminary view of 2026. As we see it today, we expect to deliver approximately 17% year-on-year growth in fiscal 2026, similar to what we're currently projecting in fiscal '25, achieving the high end of our 3-year revenue CAGR target 1 year early.

We expect that gross margins will continue to improve in fiscal 2026 with an initial estimate of 43%, plus or minus 1 point. And we expect to continue investment in our product and technology road map funded by a combination of portfolio decisions and operational efficiencies, the net result of which will enable fiscal 2026 OpEx to be flat to fiscal 2025 at approximately $1.5 billion. Taken together, we now believe that we will accelerate our longer-term goal of 15% to 16% operating margin by 1 year from 2027 to 2026, driven by increased operating leverage and improving gross margins.

Given that and in combination with the continued rapid growth we are seeing in the market, we will not be providing new 3-year targets.

With that, let me turn it back to Gary for some closing comments before we take your questions.


Gary Smith
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Marc. And in summary, we are seeing strong broad-based growth across our portfolio, driven by accelerated demand from AI workloads, related cloud traffic and steadily improving service provider investments. To be clear, we believe we're in the midst of a positive secular change in the scope of our opportunity as well as our growth trajectory given that the network has never been more critical, particularly as traffic flows out of the data centers. And as you know, for the last several years, we've been investing in technologies and products that address this demand. That demand is here now, and it's only just the beginning.

Globally, more than $7 trillion is projected to be spent through 2030 to accelerate investments in data centers, GPU clusters, the power grid and AI model development. And increasingly, networking will have a greater wallet share of this spend. We believe we are at the early stage of a multiyear, highly durable network investment era. It's now all about the network and Ciena's high-speed connectivity is front and center in this critical AI scaling as it basically moves from electrons to photons, it's all about optical.

With that, we'll now take questions from the sell-side analysts.