Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CM:CA) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 4, 2025 7:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Geoffrey Weiss - Senior Vice President, Investor Relations & Performance Measurement
Harry Culham - President & CEO
Robert Sedran - Senior EVP, CFO & Enterprise Strategy
Frank Guse - Senior EVP & Chief Risk Officer
Hratch Panossian - Senior EVP and Group Head of Canadian Personal & Business Banking
Kevin Lee
Christian Exshaw

Conference Call Participants

Ebrahim Poonawala - BofA Securities, Research Division
Matthew Lee - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
John Aiken - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Doug Young - Desjardins Securities Inc., Research Division
Mario Mendonca - TD Cowen, Research Division
Sohrab Movahedi - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Gabriel Dechaine - National Bank Financial, Inc., Research Division
Darko Mihelic - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. Welcome to the CIBC Q4 Quarterly Results Conference Call. Please be advised that this call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Geoff Weiss, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Geoff.

Geoffrey Weiss
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations & Performance Measurement

Thank you, and good morning. We will begin this morning's presentation with opening remarks from Harry Culham, marking his first earnings call as our President and Chief Executive Officer; followed by Rob Sedran, our Chief Financial Officer; and Frank Guse, our Risk Officer.

Also on the call today are our group heads, including Hratch Panossian, Personal and Business Banking Canada; and Susan Rimmer, Commercial Banking and Wealth Management. I'd like to take a moment to introduce two new members of our executive leadership team, Christian Exshaw from Capital Markets; and Kevin Lee from our U.S. region. Christian and Kevin have served with our bank for over 17 years and 23 years, respectively, and bring exceptional leadership, a proven track record of performance and exemplify our purpose-led and collaborative culture. Please join me in welcoming them to our new group heads.

We have a hard stop at 8:30 and would like to give everyone a chance to participate this morning. So as usual, we ask that you please limit your questions to one and requeue. We'll make ourselves available after the call for any follow-ups. As noted on Slide 1 of our investor presentation, our comments may contain forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and have inherent risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially. I would also remind listeners that the bank uses non-GAAP financial measures to arrive at adjusted results. Management measures performance on a reported and adjusted basis and considers both to be useful in assessing underlying business performance. With that, I will now turn the call over to Harry.

Harry Culham
President & CEO

Thank you, Geoff, and good morning, everyone. I'm excited to be speaking with you today as President and CEO of our bank. I'm energized by the opportunities ahead of us, building on our strong performance we've delivered in fiscal 2025. Our performance reflects our momentum and the execution of our client-focused strategy right across our team. When we announced our CEO succession in March of this year, I stepped into the role of Chief Operating Officer and spent the last 8 months listening and engaging with our stakeholders. And these discussions have reinforced my confidence that our client relationships are strong, our team is proud and our bank is being recognized for delivering consistent, strong financial performance.

Building on this foundation, we have united our leadership team and employees globally around an evolved ambition to be a client-focused, highly connected and performance-driven bank, delivering industry-leading shareholder returns. And this ambition is underpinned by the same strategic pillars that have driven our success and strength through the cycle performance over the past several years. So let me be clear. Our strategy remains consistent. It is working, and we are committed to delivering on what we set out to achieve. Our focus now is to accelerate the execution of our strategy to deliver relative outperformance.

And to sustain our momentum, we have aligned our team around 3 key enablers: One, we'll sharpen our client focus and double down on our connectivity. Two, we'll drive efficiencies and modernization; and three, we'll elevate our focus on human capital by fostering a culture of engagement, development and accountability. And with that, let me provide an overview of our adjusted results for fiscal 2025. We reported net earnings of $8.5 billion and earnings per share of $8.61, up 17% and 16%, respectively, from the prior year. Record revenues of $29 billion were up 14%, driven by double-digit revenue growth across each of our businesses. We delivered positive operating leverage and managed our enterprise efficiency ratio lower, both for a third consecutive year.

Our top-tier credit quality remained resilient with an impaired PCL ratio of 33 basis points, delivering at the favorable end of our guidance range. Our robust CET1 ratio of 13.3%, coupled with the earnings power of our bank gave us confidence to announce a 10% increase to our quarterly dividend to common shareholders. We also delivered a return on equity of 14.4%, which was up 70 basis points from the prior year. Our strategy and unique competitive advantages position us well to further our momentum and deliver for our clients. Our first strategic priority is to grow our mass affluent and private wealth franchise. We've cultivated a unique ecosystem to win in this segment, including our distinctive Imperial service platform, strategic Costco partnership, industry-leading Wood Gundy brand and our high-quality RIA in the U.S.

In Imperial Service, our advisors are passionate about our clients and they're engaged. Our NPS scores continue to hit all-time highs each quarter. Over the past year, our client-focused distribution channels have supported our market share gains in mutual funds, assets under management in Canada. In 2025, CIBC ranked in the top 2 of the big 6 banks for total mutual fund net sales. And we're going to continue to lean into these strengths to generate capital-light fee-based revenue, gather high-value personal deposits and drive wealth referrals. These are intentional outcomes directly aligned to our strategy and all accretive to our ROE profile.

Our second strategic priority is to grow digital-first personal banking. Our leadership in digital banking is recognized industry-wide. This past quarter, we received the 2025 Mobile Banking Award by Service Corp. Leveraging our award-winning digital capabilities in Canada, we also launched a new digital banking platform for the U.S. market as well. So collectively, these efforts are enabling us to further attract and build new and deeper relationships through data-driven insights, adding value for clients and driving growth. Our third strategic priority is to leverage our connected platform, one of our greatest competitive advantages.

Our culture of connectivity enables us to deepen and broaden our client relationships, expand our U.S. franchise and strengthen cross-business referrals. By connecting our commercial banking, wealth management and capital markets teams, we have built a strong internal referral system across our businesses that results in greater agility and more innovative solutions for our clients. And as a result, cross-business referrals in our U.S. Commercial and Wealth franchise were up 23% from the prior year. A connected capital markets footprint requires a strong presence across North America.

In fiscal 2025, revenue and net income in our Capital Markets U.S. franchise were up 39% and 50% from the prior year, respectively. We expect the rate of growth in U.S. capital markets will continue to outpace Canada and other regions over the medium term. And finally, our fourth strategic priority is to enable, simplify and protect our bank. Our performance-driven approach requires continually realizing expense and balance sheet efficiencies, modernizing our technology and scaling our data and AI infrastructure. Building on our history of innovation, we launched CIBC real-time experience, which we call Cortex for short. This is a proprietary AI-enabled client engagement engine that seamlessly integrates with our existing platform and shapes data-driven personalization.

In fiscal 2025, we made significant strides in further embedding AI as a core capability across our bank. We are well positioned to accelerate our AI adoption with a focus on Agentic AI and continued investment in talent and partnerships to continue to transform the banking experience. Looking to the operating environment in the year ahead, ongoing trade negotiations present uncertainty in Canada and abroad. Our outlook assumes that trade deal is extended, an outcome we strongly believe is in the best interest of the North American economy. We expect targeted fiscal policy relief for sectors affected by trade as well as stimulative monetary policy to support moderate economic growth across our geographies in 2026.

We are also supportive of nation-building initiatives in key sectors of Canada's economy to help create a more prosperous future. We have deep client relationships in these sectors and we'll be there to support Canada's growth. Regardless of how the environment evolves, we will continue to stay close and proactively engage with our clients. So in closing, we're setting our sights higher -- to build on the clear momentum we've established, we have built an engine to deliver sustainable, relative outperformance and a road map to generate profitable growth over the long term. We believe our unwavering client focus, the bench strength of our team and accelerated execution of our strategy will drive value for our stakeholders through the cycle. It's an exciting time at CIBC, and I'm honored to have the opportunity to lead our team.

With that, I'll now turn it over to Rob for a detailed review of our financial results. Over to you, Rob.

Robert Sedran
Senior EVP, CFO & Enterprise Strategy

Thank you, Harry, and good morning, everyone. Let's start with three takeaways. First, our consistently strong results and increasing ROE reflect the disciplined execution of our client-focused and connected strategy. In other words, the results were on strategy. Second, our record results this quarter are revenue driven, providing good momentum as we head into 2026. And third, our balance sheet -- our strong balance sheet has allowed us to grow with our clients and return capital to our shareholders. In fiscal '25, we returned over $5 billion or approximately 2/3 of our net earnings through dividends and share repurchases. These achievements reinforce our confidence in our ability to deliver long-term value and underpin the dividend increase Harry referenced in his remarks.

Please turn to Slide 8. For the fourth quarter of 2025, earnings per share were $2.20 or $2.21 on an adjusted basis. Adjusted ROE of 14.1% was up 70 basis points from the same quarter last year. For both the quarter and the full year, the only adjusting item was the amortization of intangibles.

Let's move on to a detailed review of our performance. I'm on Slide 9. Adjusted net income of $2.2 billion increased 16%. Expanding margins, volume growth and higher fee revenues allowed us to maintain revenue momentum, deliver the 9th consecutive quarter of positive operating leverage and continue to drive pre-provision earnings growth in a strong range at 20%. Total provisions for credit losses were up 44% year-over-year largely due to higher performing provisions as impaired losses were at the low end of our 2025 guidance range. Frank will discuss credit trends and the outlook in his remarks.

Slide 10 highlights key drivers of net interest income. Excluding trading, NII was up 14% with continued balance sheet growth and expanding margins. All bank margin ex trading was up 14 basis points from the prior year and up 6 basis points sequentially. Canadian P&C NIM of 290 basis points was up 9 basis points sequentially driven by loan margin expansion as well as the impact of favorable mix. In the U.S. segment, NIM of 384 basis points was up 6 points from the prior quarter due to continued strength in deposits as well as loan fees that were higher than normal. In both Canada and the United States, we expect margins to move gradually higher from these levels, albeit at a slower rate than what we saw in fiscal '25 based on the current forward curve.

Turning to Slide 11. Noninterest income of $3.4 billion was up 15%. Market-related fees increased 18%, helped by constructive markets with particularly strong growth in trading, underwriting and advisory and mutual fund fees. Transaction-related fees were up 8%, driven mainly by higher credit fees, partly offset by lower card fees.

Slide 12 highlights our expense performance. Expenses increased 10% as investments and seasonal costs, including higher severance, were only partly offset by the benefits of prior initiatives to improve efficiency. We continue to invest in technology and AI to both surface efficiencies and develop an enhanced client experience through faster and more personalized service. We intend to manage expense growth to the mid-single digits for 2026 and continue to manage to positive operating leverage on an annual basis.

Slide 13 highlights the consistent strength of our balance sheet. Our CET1 ratio at the end of the quarter was 13.3%, down 7 basis points sequentially and stable year-over-year. We delivered solid organic capital generation, offset by deployment in risk-weighted assets and our ongoing share repurchase program. Please note that in addition to ongoing organic capital generation, in Q2 of '26, an adjustment to our operational RWAs will add roughly 25 basis points to our CET1 ratio. Our liquidity position remains very strong with an average LCR of 132%.

Starting on Slide 14 with Canadian Personal and Business Banking, we highlight our strategic business unit results. Adjusted net income was stable to the prior year as strong revenue growth was largely offset by higher provisions for credit losses and higher expenses. Supported by core business momentum, pre-provision pretax earnings were up 14%. Revenues were up 12%, helped by margin expansion and favorable business mix. Net interest margin was up 33 basis points year-over-year and 11 basis points sequentially. Beyond the benefit from our tractoring strategy, we continue to see tangible results from our focus on deep and profitable client relationships, product mix and disciplined pricing decisions. Expenses were up 10% due to investments in technology and other strategic initiatives as well as higher employee-related compensation, a software write-down and a legal provision.

On Slide 15, we show Canadian Commercial Banking and Wealth Management, where net income and pre-provision pretax earnings were up 9% and 13% from a year ago. Revenues were up 15% from last year. Wealth Management growth of 18% was driven by higher average fee-based assets resulting from market appreciation and increased client activity driving higher commissions. Commercial Banking revenues were up 9%, driven by volume growth and margin expansion. Commercial loan and deposit volumes were up 10% and 9%, respectively, from a year ago. Expenses increased 16% from a year ago, mainly from higher compensation linked to the strong revenues, higher spending on technology and other strategic initiatives.

Turning to U.S. Commercial Banking and Wealth Management on Slide 16. Net income was up 35% from the prior year, mainly due to lower loan loss provisions. Revenues were up 9% from last year. Net interest income was helped by deposit growth of 8% and wider deposit margins. Fee income growth was broad-based, reflective of our strategy to deepen client relationships. Expenses were up 18%, partially due to higher performance-based compensation as well as strategic initiatives.

Turning to Slide 17 and our Capital Markets segment. Net income was up 58% year-over-year. Revenues were up 32% across our Capital Markets businesses. Global Markets saw growth across most products. Corporate Banking was up from higher average balances and fees and investment banking saw higher debt underwriting and advisory revenues. Our focus on the U.S. continues to deliver strong results with year-over-year revenue growth of 48% and 38% of segment revenues coming from that market this quarter. Expenses were up 9%, largely due to continued investments in business and technology initiatives, higher compensation and higher volume-driven expenses.

Slide 18 reflects the results of Corporate and Other, a net loss of $42 million compares with a net loss of $7 million in the prior year. We maintain our medium-term guidance of a quarterly loss between $0 and $50 million for this segment.

Slide 19 highlights our full year performance. 2025 was a record year for CIBC. We delivered double-digit growth across all of our metrics, growing revenues by 14%, pre-provision earnings by 18% and EPS by 16%, all well ahead of our medium-term targets. ROE for the year was 14.4%, an increase of 70 basis points from the prior year. We are confident that our strategy, connected culture and financial strength position us well to build on this momentum, drive EPS growth and deliver a premium ROE. On that ROE, we remain committed to an improving ROE above 15%, and based on our current outlook, expect to achieve that target in fiscal '26, helped by EPS growth that is at the high end or higher than our 7% to 10% medium-term target range.

In closing, we believe this year's performance reflects the impact of the focused investments we have made in technology, talent and client experience, investments that combined with disciplined execution are now translating into strong financial results. With that, I'll turn it over to Frank.

Frank Guse
Senior EVP & Chief Risk Officer

Thank you, Rob, and good morning, everyone. Despite economic uncertainties, our credit performance remained resilient throughout 2025, ending the fiscal year at the low end of our full year guidance. We continue to focus on developing deep client relationships across all our segments and invest in risk strategies to drive strong credit outcomes. Trade headwinds in recent quarters have led to higher provisions in our performing allowance. Our build this quarter, leveraging expert judgment positions us well to navigate uncertainties that may persist into the coming year. We remain confident in the quality and consistency of our credit performance as demonstrated over the past year.

Turning to Slide 22. Our total provision for credit losses was $605 million in Q4, up from $559 million last quarter. We continue to strengthen our allowance coverage this quarter by 2 basis points to 80 basis points with our year-over-year total allowance up by $625 million or 15%. Our performing provision was $108 million this quarter, mainly a reflection of the evolving economic environment and the impact of some credit migration. Our provision on impaired loans was $497 million, up $16 million quarter-over-quarter. Higher provisions in our Capital Markets and Canadian Commercial Banking segments were partially offset by lower provisions in our other portfolios.

Turning to Slide 23. In Q4, '25, impaired provisions increased slightly with the fiscal '25 loss rate at 33 basis points. Canadian Personal and Business Banking and U.S. Commercial impaired provisions were down this quarter. Impaired provisions in our Capital Markets business was up in Q4, mainly driven by two names. These names represent loan exposures in different geographies. And overall, this portfolio continues to perform well. In our Canadian Commercial Banking portfolio increases this quarter were not attributable to any notable sector. We remain pleased with the strong performance across our portfolio, especially in our commercial portfolio this year.

Slide 24 summarizes our gross impaired loans and formations. Gross impaired loan ratio was 61 basis points, up 5 basis points quarter-over-quarter. The increase in business and government loans was largely driven by one new impairment in our Capital Markets portfolio. While mortgages experienced a moderate increase this quarter, our current loan-to-value ratio for the mortgage book remains prudent at 55% for the overall book and 65% on impaired balances. Notwithstanding the softness in the housing market, we continue to not expect any material increase in losses in our mortgage portfolio.

Slide 25 summarizes the 90-plus day delinquency rates and net write-offs of our Canadian consumer portfolios. Our Canadian consumer portfolios performed as expected throughout fiscal '25, reflecting the evolving economic conditions. The 90-plus day delinquencies in our credit cards and residential mortgages portfolios increased quarter-over-quarter, driven by challenging macroeconomic conditions, while personal lending remained flat. Although our net write-off ratio was down slightly quarter-over-quarter, we remain focused on unemployment levels, which will remain a key driver of this metric. While we continue to see the impact of elevated unemployment and ongoing macroeconomic uncertainties, we are pleased with the overall resilience and strength of these portfolios.

In closing, while the economic environment was more challenging in 2025, we were pleased with our credit performance this past year. We will continue supporting our clients to navigate through the dynamic environment and taking proactive actions to effectively mitigate risk. Looking ahead to 2026, despite ongoing headwinds, we anticipate that the gradual improvement in the macro economy will lead to impaired provisions stabilizing in the mid- to low 30 basis point range, a slightly improved outlook over our mid-30 basis point guidance for fiscal 2025. The increase in performing allowances over 2025 reflects our proactive approach to maintaining prudent reserves, ensuring we are well positioned to manage uncertainties that may persist in the year ahead. I will now ask the operator to open the line for your questions.