Coherent Corp. (COHR) Q1 2026 Earnings Call November 5, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Paul Silverstein - Vice President of Investor Relations
James Anderson - CEO, President & Employee Director
Sherri Luther - CFO & Treasurer

Conference Call Participants

Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Simon Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
George Notter - Wolfe Research, LLC
Blayne Curtis - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Thomas O'Malley - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Papa Sylla - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Michael Mani - BofA Securities, Research Division
Meta Marshall - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Ruben Roy - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Karl Ackerman - BNP Paribas, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Coherent First Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Call. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Paul Silverstein, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for Coherent. Please go ahead.

Paul Silverstein
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. With me today are Jim Anderson, Coherent's CEO; and Sherri Luther, Coherent's CFO. During today's call, we will provide a financial and business review of the first quarter of fiscal 2026 and the business outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2026. Our earnings press release can be found in the Investor Relations section of our company website at coherent.com. I would like to remind everyone that during our conference call today, we may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements or predictions based on information that is currently available and that actual results may differ materially.

We refer you to the documents that the company files with the SEC, including our 10-Ks, 10-Qs and 8-Ks. These documents contain and identify important risk factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contained in our projections or forward-looking statements. This call includes and constitutes the company's official guidance for the second quarter of fiscal 2026. If at any time after this call, we communicate any material changes to this guidance, we intend that such updates will be done using a public forum such as a press release or publicly announced conference call.

Additionally, we will refer to both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures during this call. By disclosing certain non-GAAP information, management intends to provide investors with additional information to permit further analysis of the company's performance and underlying trends. For historical periods, we provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings release and investor presentation that can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website at coherent.com.

Let me now turn the call over to our CEO, Jim Anderson.

James Anderson
CEO, President & Employee Director

Thank you, Paul, and thank you, everyone, for joining today's call. Coherent is the world's leading innovator and provider of photonic technology and solutions. Photonics is critical to growing applications in AI data center networks, communications and a wide range of industrial applications. We're well positioned for long-term growth across all these applications and especially in AI data centers where we're experiencing unprecedented demand for our optical networking products. In particular, we expect continued strong sequential revenue growth throughout this fiscal year given the record level of orders we are receiving from our customers and the continued expansion of our production capacity.

In addition, we continue to streamline our portfolio and ensure that our investments are focused on the areas of greatest long-term growth and profitability for the company in order to drive sustained shareholder value creation.

Turning to our Q1 operating results. Revenue increased by 6% sequentially and 19% year-over-year on a pro forma basis, which excludes revenue from our recently divested Aerospace and Defense business, a sale that enhanced our portfolio focus and accelerated deleveraging. Non-GAAP gross margin expanded by 70 basis points sequentially and 200 basis points year-over-year. The combination of revenue growth and gross margin expansion drove non-GAAP EPS growth of 16% sequentially and 73% year-over-year.

I'll now provide some highlights from our 2 operating segments. We'll begin with our Datacenter and Communications segment, which is our largest and fastest-growing business, Q1 revenue grew by 7% sequentially and by 26% year-over-year driven by growth in both our Datacenter and Communications markets. In our Datacenter business, Q1 revenue grew 4% sequentially and 23% year-over-year. Our Datacenter growth in Q1 was constrained by the supply of indium phosphide lasers. However, we expect data center growth to accelerate to approximately 10% sequential growth in the current quarter followed by strong sequential growth through the balance of this fiscal year given very strong demand and improving supply.

I'd like to provide some additional color on both the demand and supply picture within our Datacenter business. First, we are experiencing an exceptionally strong level of demand. In our fiscal Q1, we received direct bookings that represent a step function increase in already strong customer demand. We are seeing strong demand for both our 800 gig and 1.6T transceivers with broad adoption of our 800 gig transceivers and accelerated adoption of our 1.60T transceivers. A significant portion of the sequential growth we expect in the current quarter is driven by 1.6T adoption.

As a reminder, earlier this year at OFC, we were the only company to demonstrate 3 different types of 1.6T transceivers based on 3 different types of laser sources; silicon photonics, EML and VCSEL. Our 1.6T transceivers based on silicon photonics and EMLs are ramping first, and we expect our 1.6T transceivers based on our 200-gig VCSELs to ramp next calendar year. We see strong demand for 1.6T transceivers across multiple customers and expect both 800-gig and 1.6T to grow significantly in calendar 2026. Our deep portfolio of optical networking technology, combined with our vertical integration and diversified supply chain, are key competitive advantages with our customers and uniquely position coherent within the industry.

On the supply side, given the strong demand growth we are seeing, we are continuing to expand our production capacity for transceiver modules and the key optical components used in those modules. For example, one of the key constraints across the industry is indium phosphide laser capacity. Over the course of Q1, we saw improving EML supply, and we expect both internal and external EML supply to improve significantly in the current quarter and throughout the balance of this fiscal year. In particular, we continue to expand our internal indium phosphide production capacity. We are aggressively ramping 6-inch capacity because a 6-inch wafer compared to a 3-inch wafer will produce more than 4x as many chips at less than half the cost. This will provide increasing benefit to our gross margin as we continue to ramp production.

Our 6-inch indium phosphide line in Sherman, Texas, which is the world's first 6-inch indium phosphide production line began production last quarter and continues to ramp well. I am very pleased to share that our initial 6-inch indium phosphide production yields are actually higher than our current 3-inch indium phosphide yields. This is an outstanding accomplishment by our production team and also a testament to the tremendous experience that we've gained over the past 5 years, producing almost 2 billion VCSEL devices on our 6-inch gallium arsenide technology.

Given the healthy yields we are seeing with 6-inch production, we began production of 6-inch indium phosphide at a second site in Jarfalla, Sweden, ramping at 2 sites in parallel will significantly accelerate our production capacity ramp. Additionally, we are in production on 3 different types of key transceiver components on 6-inch indium phosphide, EMLs, CW lasers and photodiodes.

With the ramp of 6-inch production at 2 sites in parallel, we expect to roughly double our total internal production capacity of indium phosphide over the next year. We also expect to continue to supplement our internal indium phosphide capacity with sourcing from external suppliers. We expect our external supply of EMLs to increase sequentially this quarter and next calendar year through continued partnership with our key external suppliers.

In addition to critical laser production capacity, we are also expanding transceiver module assembly capacity. While we continue to expand production at our existing site in Ipoh, Malaysia, we will now be expanding production capacity in parallel at a new transceiver production facility that we recently opened in Penang, Malaysia. In addition, we will be adding transceiver production capacity at our existing site in Vietnam, which already produces transceiver components. This additional production capacity allows us to continue to rapidly ramp module capacity to support the demand growth in front of us.

I'd like to pivot to some technology developments that we expect to further benefit our data center business over the long term. We continue to make progress on LPO, LRO, CPO and [ NPO ] related products and technologies with strong engagements across a wide range of customers. For example, we've shipped both LPO and LRO 800-gig and 1.6T transceivers to customers. Also in September, we announced that we have commenced sampling of our 400-milliwatt CW lasers designed for CPO and silicon photonics applications. We expect to address a broad range of CPO form factors for both scale-out and scale-up data center applications with this new product. We also continue to see significant customer engagement around our 200-gig VCSEL-based solutions for NPO applications.

Multiple customer engagements on integrated optics applications reinforce our view that the incremental market opportunity for optical solutions in the scale-up portion of the AI data center networks will be very compelling, and we believe Coherent is well positioned to address these applications using both CW and VCSEL-based solutions. We continue to expect to see initial CPO deployments in calendar 2026, with growth continuing in the following years, while pluggable form factor continues to grow in the scale out portion of the network.

Another area of new growth is our optical circuit switch platform, which continues to progress well with expanding customer engagement. We believe this product line adds over $2 billion of addressable market opportunity over the coming years. Both the breadth of customers and the range of applications are wider than our initial expectations. The underlying technology in our OCS system is a nonmechanical field-proven liquid crystal technology which has been successfully deployed for many years in demanding telecom applications and has a significant competitive advantage over other solutions. To date, we've shipped systems to 7 customers and expect that number to continue to expand this quarter. Shipments have included both 64x64 and 320x320 system sizes.

Both revenue and backlog for OCS grew sequentially in our fiscal Q1 and and we expect it to grow again in the current quarter. Our current backlog includes both 64x64 and 320x320 systems with the majority of the backlog weighted toward the larger system size. Given the strong customer demand and backlog, we are aggressively ramping production for both small and large capacity systems, and we expect revenue to ramp throughout calendar 2026. Given the multiple growth vectors across pluggable transceivers, CPO and OCS, we are very excited about the opportunities ahead of our Datacenter business.

Turning to our communications market. In Q1, revenue grew 11% sequentially and 55% year-over-year. Growth was driven by products for data center interconnect, but we also saw strong growth in traditional telecom applications. We expect our communications business to grow sequentially again in the current quarter and throughout the balance of this fiscal year.

In hyperscale DCI, we continue to see strong growth in customer demand for our ZR/ZR+ DCI-focused products. Our product lineup, which includes 100 gig, 400 gig and 800 gig ZR/ZR+ Coherent transceivers is growing quickly, and we expect these products to continue to ramp throughout the course of this fiscal year. We also continue to see steady recovery in our telecom business. In addition to market recovery, we've introduced multiple new industry-leading telecom platforms for which we are seeing significant customer interest and expect strong future revenue contribution such as our new award-winning Multi-Rail technology platform.

This platform is a breakthrough solution that amplifies multiple fiber pairs while cooperating within the physical and electrical constraints of existing infrastructure. Customer engagement on this new platform is very strong, and we see this as one of many growth vectors for our Communications business in both the near and long term.

Turning now to our Industrial segment. Revenue grew 2% quarter-over-quarter and 4% year-over-year on a pro forma basis, excluding revenue from the recently divested Aerospace and Defense business. While we maintain a cautious outlook on near-term demand, given the macroeconomic backdrop and ongoing tariff and regulatory uncertainty, we were pleased to see growth in our first fiscal quarter and we expect the Industrial business to be stable to slightly up sequentially in our current quarter on a pro forma basis.

Within our Industrial segment, there are several key growth areas. For example, we expect ongoing strong demand in display capital equipment, driven by OLED screen adoption expanding to larger format devices like tablets and laptops. We also expect growth over the long term in our semicap equipment market, given the industry-wide expansion in semiconductor production.

Another promising growth opportunity that I'd like to highlight is our advanced materials for thermal management and cooling.

Traditionally, these materials are used in a wide range of applications in our industrial markets. However, the rapid expansion of AI data centers has created a significant growth opportunity. We see potential widespread adoption of these materials to address the thermal and power challenges posed by ever larger AI data centers. For example, our proprietary [ Thermodyne ] material moves heat twice as effectively as copper which is a tremendous advantage in data center cooling applications. We're engaged with multiple hyperscaler customers on this new emerging application of our materials technology.

Lastly, I'd like to give an update on our portfolio optimization initiative. As a reminder, we are focused on streamlining our portfolio and concentrating our investments in the areas of greatest long-term growth and profitability. We are shifting investment from noncore areas in realigning our footprint to drive better asset composition and utilization efficiency across the organization. We completed the sale of our Aerospace and Defense business at the beginning of September. The proceeds of the sale were used to pay down debt and the sale is immediately accretive to both gross margin and EPS.

In addition, we recently announced the sale of our product division based in Munich, Germany that makes tools for materials processing and as part of our Industrial segment. We made the decision to sell this product division because it was not aligned to our long-term strategic focus areas, and it did not support our long-term financial goals. This transaction is expected to close in our fiscal Q3. The proceeds of this transaction will be used to reduce debt and the sale is expected to be immediately accretive to both gross margin and EPS.

In addition to streamlining the product portfolio, we are also continuing to streamline our physical footprint. Since the beginning of our last fiscal year, roughly 5 quarters ago, we have sold or exited 23 sites and we plan to continue to streamline our footprint and exit additional underutilized or unnecessary sites over the coming quarters. While I'm pleased with the progress we've made streamlining our portfolio, we still have more work to do. I view portfolio optimization as an evergreen process, and we will continue to reevaluate our asset portfolio to streamline and focus on the areas of greatest profit growth and ensure we are optimizing our return on invested capital.

In summary, we delivered strong revenue and EPS growth in Q1 and are on track for strong sequential growth over the coming quarters, driven by exceptionally strong demand in our Datacenter and Communication segment, along with continued expansion in our production capacity. I want to thank the Coherent team for all their hard work and dedication.

I'll now turn the call over to our CFO, Sherri Luther.

Sherri Luther
CFO & Treasurer

Thank you, Jim. We are pleased with our first quarter 2026 results and execution. We continue to drive strong double-digit year-over-year revenue growth, gross margin improvement and enhanced profitability. We significantly paid down our debt, reducing our interest expense and further strengthening our balance sheet. At the end of the quarter, we successfully completed our debt refinancing, lowering our cost of capital and improving our financial flexibility.

I will now provide a summary of our Q1 results. First quarter revenue was a record $1.58 billion, up 3% sequentially from the fourth quarter and up 17% year-over-year, driven by growth in AI data center and communications demand.

In our Q4 25 earnings call, we announced an agreement to sell our Aerospace and Defense business. As expected, this transaction closed in Q1 '26. On a pro forma basis, excluding $33 million of Aerospace and Defense revenue for Q1, revenue increased 6% sequentially and 19% year-over-year. Our Q1 non-GAAP gross margin was 38.7%, a 70 basis point improvement compared to the prior quarter and a 200 basis point improvement as compared to the year ago quarter. I am especially pleased with the progress we have made on gross margin expansion, driven by the cost reduction and pricing optimization initiatives that we continue to focus on as we drive to our target model of greater than 42%.

The sequential and year-over-year increases in gross margin were driven by cost reductions and product input costs as well as yield improvements primarily in our Datacenter and Communications segment. Pricing optimization contributed meaningfully in both the Industrial segment and the Datacenter and Communications segment. First quarter non-GAAP operating expenses were $304 million compared to $307 million in the prior quarter and $278 million in the year ago quarter.

Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue declined to 19.2% as compared to 20.1% in the prior quarter and 20.6% in the year ago quarter. The reduction in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue is due to the continued focus on driving efficiencies and greater leverage in SG&A. We have made good progress on these initiatives with the benefits expected to kick in at various points in time. The year-over-year increases in R&D were primarily in the Datacenter and Communications segment as we continue to focus on investments with the highest ROI that drive the future growth of the company. The sequential decline in R&D was driven by the timing of these investments, which can fluctuate on a quarterly basis.

Our first quarter non-GAAP operating margin was 19.5% compared to 18% in the prior quarter and 16.1% in the year ago quarter. First quarter non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was $1.16 compared to $1 in the prior quarter and $0.67 in the year ago quarter. From a capital allocation perspective, we paid down $400 million in debt, significantly reducing our debt leverage ratio to 1.7x, down from 2.4x in the year ago quarter. As mentioned in our Q4 '25 earnings call, we used the proceeds from the sale of the Aerospace and Defense business to make this debt payment.

We also completed the refinancing of our debt at the end of the first quarter reducing our interest rate by 60 basis points and doubling the amount of our revolving credit facility to $700 million. We will use the revolving credit facility to increase liquidity and provide greater flexibility. As Jim noted, we plan to use the proceeds from the sale of our product division in Munich, Germany to further reduce our interest expense by paying down additional debt, which will be immediately accretive to our gross margin and EPS. For reference, over the past 4 quarters, this business contributed average quarterly revenue of $25 million with a gross margin well below Coherent's corporate gross margin. The sale will reduce our employee headcount by approximately 425 employees.

I will now turn to our guidance for the second quarter of fiscal 2026. We expect revenue to be between $1.56 billion and $1.7 billion. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be between 38% and 40%. We expect total operating expenses of between $300 million and $320 million on a non-GAAP basis. We expect the tax rate for the quarter to be between 18% and 20% on a non-GAAP basis. We expect EPS of between $1.10 and $1.30 on a non-GAAP basis.

In summary, I'm very pleased with the solid progress we made in Q1. Looking ahead, we're seeing exceptionally strong demand in our Datacenter and Communications segment. To meet this robust momentum, we are ramping capacity and investing strategically in the business. We remain focused on disciplined execution against our long-term financial target model. These dynamics reinforce our confidence in driving long-term growth and durable value creation for our shareholders.

That concludes my formal comments. Operator, please open the call for Q&A.