Costco Wholesale Corporation (COST) Q1 2026 Earnings Call December 11, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Gary Millerchip - Executive VP & CFO
Ron Vachris - President, CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Michael Lasser - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Christopher Horvers - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Simeon Gutman - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Oliver Chen - TD Cowen, Research Division
Charles Grom - Gordon Haskett Research Advisors
Katharine McShane - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Peter Benedict - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
John Heinbockel - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Rupesh Parikh - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Gregory Melich - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Edward Kelly - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Zhihan Ma - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Scot Ciccarelli - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
David Bellinger - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Kelly Bania - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Spencer Hanus - Wolfe Research, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is Abby, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Costco Wholesale Corporation First Quarter 2026 Earnings Call.

[Operator Instructions]

Thank you. And I would now like to turn the conference over to Gary Millerchip, Chief Financial Officer. You may begin.

Gary Millerchip
Executive VP & CFO

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us for Costco's First Quarter 2026 Earnings Call. I'd like to start by reminding you that these discussions will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results and/or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements.

The risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those outlined in today's call, as well as other risks identified from time to time in the company's public statements and reports filed with the SEC. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company does not undertake to update these statements, except as required by law. Comparable sales and comparable sales, excluding impacts from changes in gasoline prices and foreign exchange, are intended as supplemental information and are not a substitute for net sales presented in accordance with GAAP. Before we dive into our financial results, I'm delighted to say that Ron Vachris is once again joining me for today's call. I'll now hand over to Ron for some opening comments.

Ron Vachris
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Gary, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'll start with a few brief comments on some of our key growth initiatives before turning it back to Gary to discuss the results of the quarter. In Q1, we opened 8 new warehouses, including a relocation in Canada, our third warehouse in France, 4 net new U.S. locations and 2 additional Canadian business centers. This brings our total warehouse count to 921 worldwide. We continue to see significant opportunities for future warehouse growth, both domestically and across the international markets and where we operate. While delays with a couple of our buildings in Spain resulted in us revising our planned net new openings for fiscal year '26 down to 28, we continue to plan for 30-plus net openings per year in future years.

We've increased the size of our real estate team to support this goal and without compromising on quality, we're being creative with real estate projects to further increase the potential for future growth. Recent examples of this include our new warehouse in Mulhouse, France, where we converted an old Hypermart into a Costco warehouse as well as 2 Canadian business centers that opened in the last month, both of which were refurbished home improvement warehouses. This approach broadens our options for market expansion and lowers the capital investment required.

In addition to opening net new buildings, we will continue to relocate select high-volume warehouses to larger locations with more parking and expanded gas stations. By doing this, we're able to provide a better experience for our members and significantly accelerate sales growth in those markets.

In fiscal year '26, we have 5 relocations planned, including 3 in the U.S. and 1 each in Canada and Taiwan. The success of our new warehouse expansion has allowed us to consistently drive top line revenue well in excess of our comparable sales and gain significant market share. We continue to see improvements in the performance of our new buildings and a reduction in their time to maturity. With fiscal year '25 openings generating an annualized $192 million per warehouse of sales in the year of opening, that is up from $150 million for new warehouses opened just 2 years earlier.

Turning to digital. Our digital vision at Costco is to deliver a seamless experience that builds trust and loyalty with our members, both in warehouse and online. We aim to make the shopping at Costco easier, faster and more personal, no matter where or how our members choose to shop. This isn't about technology for technology's sake, it's about using technology to strengthen the fundamentals that makes Costco who we are, increasing member loyalty, driving top line sales and improving efficiency in our operations so that we can bring goods to market at the lowest possible price. Progress has already begun and is delivering tangible results. In the warehouse implementation of scanning memberships at entry, the Costco Digital Wallet and pre-scanning small- to medium-sized baskets is leading to better member experience and improved productivity.

The warehouses that are first to adopt this pre-scan technology have shown checkout speed improvements of up to 20%. And across our U.S. warehouses overall, we achieved record levels of checkout productivity in the final weeks of the quarter. Online, we continue to make enhancements to improve the member experience on our site and app. As an example, this quarter, we launched new personalization capabilities that provide members with more relevant product recommendations based on their past search history. The sales lift from this enhancement has been very positive. AI is also being interwoven into our business where we believe it can strengthen our model. Again, we're approaching it in a very Costco way, practical, member-focused and grounded in tangible business value.

An early use case has involved integrating AI into our pharmacy inventory system. This system now compares prescription drug pricing across vendors and autonomously and predictively reorders inventory, improving our in-stocks to more than 98%. This change has played an important role in helping us achieve mid-teen growth in pharmacy scripts filled and has improved margins while lowering prices to our members. We're now in the process of deploying AI tools in our gas business, which we expect will improve inventory management and drive incremental sales by ensuring we are always delivering the best value to our members.

These are just a few of the use cases we're developing into our business as we speak. While digital and technology will play an important role in our future, our people are what makes Costco special. I'd like to recognize the outstanding work done by our more than 340,000 employees around the world. Their commitment to our company and the Costco experience for our members is what drives our success.

I'd like to thank our entire team for their outstanding work this year and especially now during our busiest season. I also wanted to mention that our annual update to Costco's sustainability commitments was made available online earlier this month. This report provides a comprehensive review of the progress we are making towards our sustainability objectives, and I would encourage you to take a look.

With that, I'll turn it back over to Gary to discuss the results for the quarter, and I'll jump back on during Q&A to field some questions.

Gary Millerchip
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Ron. In today's press release, we reported operating results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2026 for 12 weeks ended November 23. As usual, we published a slide deck under Events and Presentations on our investor website with supplemental information to support today's press release. Net income for the first quarter came in at $2.001 billion or $4.50 per diluted share, up from $1.798 billion or $4.04 per diluted share in the first quarter last year. This year's results include a tax benefit of $72 million or $0.16 per diluted share relating to stock-based compensation and last year's results include a tax benefit of $100 million or $0.22 per diluted share, also related to stock-based compensation.

Excluding these discrete tax items, net income and earnings per diluted share, both grew 13.6%. Net sales for the first quarter were $65.98 billion, an increase of 8.2% from $60.99 million in the first quarter last year. Comparable sales were 6.4%, both before and after adjusting for gas price deflation and FX. Excluding gas sales entirely and adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange, comparable sales were 7.1%. Digitally enabled comparable sales were 20.5%, both with and without adjusting for FX. Our segment breakout of comparable sales is disclosed in both our earnings release and the supplemental slide deck.

In terms of Q1 comp sales metrics, FX positively impacted sales by approximately 0.1%, while gas price deflation negatively impacted sales by approximately 0.1%. Traffic or shopping frequency increased 3.1% worldwide and our average transaction or ticket was up 3.2% worldwide, both with and without the impacts of gas price deflation and FX.

Moving down the income statement and membership fee income. We reported membership fee income of $1.329 billion, an increase of $163 million or 14% year-over-year. Adjusting for FX, the increase was also 14%. Last September's U.S. and Canada membership fee increase accounted for a little less than half of membership income growth. Excluding the membership fee increase and FX, membership income grew 7.3% year-over-year. This was driven by continued growth in our membership base and increased upgrades from Gold Star to executive membership. At Q1 end, we had 39.7 million paid executive memberships, up 9.1% versus last year. We ended the quarter with 81.4 million total paid members, up 5.2% versus last year and 145.9 million cardholders, up 5.1% year-over-year.

In terms of renewal rates, at Q1 end, our U.S. and Canada renewal rate was 92.2%, and the worldwide rate came in at 89.7%, both down 10 basis points from last quarter. This slight decline was due to the factors we discussed last quarter and reflects new online members growing as a percentage of our total base and renewing at a slightly lower rate than warehouse sign-ups. The decline was less than anticipated due to some early success with targeted communications to expiring members. Our goal is to continue to improve renewal rates by improving engagement with members who signed up digitally.

Although for the reasons previously shared, we may still see a slight decline in the overall renewal rate over the next few quarters.

Turning to gross margin. Our reported rate was higher year-over-year by 4 basis points, both with and without gas deflation, coming in at 11.32% compared to 11.28% last year.

Core was flat. In terms of core margins on their own sales, our core on core margins were higher by 30 basis points. This increase was broad-based with nonfoods, foods and sundries and fresh all higher year-over-year. Supply chain improvements and an increase in KS penetration benefited margins as did additional marketing revenue. The improvement in core on core was offset by changes in mix and lapping higher income in our co-brand credit card program a year ago. Ancillary and other businesses gross margin was higher by 7 basis points, primarily driven by pharmacy and hearing aids. LIFO negatively impacted the gross margin rate by 3 basis points. We had a $1.9 million LIFO credit in Q1 this year compared to a $19 million credit in Q1 last year.

Moving on to SG&A. Our reported SG&A rate was higher or worse year-over-year by 1 basis point, coming in at 9.6% compared to last year's 9.59%. The operations component of SG&A was higher or worse by 1 basis point. Our operators did a great job improving productivity and capturing efficiency benefits from the technology investments that Ron referenced earlier. These productivity improvements fully offset wage investments and the impact of extended operating hours and would have created positive leverage in the quarter had we not experienced higher health care costs. Central was lower or better by 3 basis points. This quarter's SG&A also included a charge relating to a tax assessment for prior years, which negatively impacted the rate by 4 basis points.

Below the operating income line, interest expense was $35 million versus $37 million last year. Interest income was $122 million versus $96 million last year, driven by higher cash balances and FX and other was a $33 million benefit versus a $51 million benefit last year due to lower FX gains. In terms of income taxes, our tax rate in Q1 was 22.5% compared to 22% in Q1 last year. As mentioned earlier, this year's rate benefited $72 million and last year's rate benefited $100 million from annual RSU vesting.

Turning now to some key items of note in the quarter. Capital expenditure in Q1 was approximately $1.53 billion. As shared last quarter, we are making additional investments to support a higher number of new warehouse openings increased warehouse remodels to drive continued growth in existing high-volume buildings, depot network expansion and digital. We estimate capital expenditure for the full year will be approximately $6.5 billion.

Before we take a closer look at core merchandising results for Q1, here are a few fun facts about the holiday selling season so far. Our U.S. food court set a daily record on Halloween, selling 358,000 whole pizzas, an increase of 31% versus last year. Black Friday was a record-breaking day for our U.S. e-commerce business, generating over $250 million in nonfood orders. Our U.S. bakeries also set a record in the 3 days leading up to Thanksgiving selling 4.5 million pies. That's over 7,000 pies per warehouse over a 3-day period.

Turning to Q1 merchandising highlights. Our relentless focus on quality, value and newness continued to deliver market share gains across virtually all departments. Fresh sales were up mid- to high single digits, led by double-digit growth in meat. We saw strong growth in higher cost cuts of beef and even greater unit growth in lower-cost proteins like ground beef and poultry. Bakery experienced high single-digit growth driven by the introduction of some great new items such as our holiday dessert bars and our Creme Brulee Bar Cake.

Nonfoods have comp sales in the mid-single digits. Our buyers continue to do an excellent job finding new and exciting items at great values while also adjusting our assortment to minimize the impact of tariffs. Gold and jewelry, special events, health and beauty were all up double digits and majors, tires and small appliances also continued to outperform with high single-digit comps. We added a number of new national brand partnerships across a range of nonfood categories in Q1, including GAAP and alter gift cards, Vera Bradley apparel and upper deck trading cards. Food and sundries comp also grew mid-single digits, with candy and food showing the strongest results.

Newness has been driving growth in this category as well with on-trend items such as Dubai Chocolate performing very well. Kirkland Signature continues to grow at a faster pace than overall sales with KS items typically offering 15% to 20% value compared to the national brand alternative with equal or better quality. In Q1, we launched approximately 45 new KS items, including dry facial daily clean towels, caramelized blueberry croissants and various apparel items in addition to our latest food court offering, the caramel brownie sundae. As always, our goal is to be the first to lower prices where we see opportunities to do so.

A few examples of lower prices this quarter include KS Chicken Pot Pie from $4.29 to $3.99 per pound; KS Bacon from $18.99 to $16.99 per packet; KS Whipped cream 3-pack from $10.49 to $8.99 and KS Walnuts 3 pounds pack $14.49 to $12.99.

In digital, site traffic in the quarter was up 24%, and app traffic was up 48%. Sales in non-foods were led by pharmacy, gold and jewelry, tires, small electrics, apparel and majors, all of which grew double digits year-over-year. Our same-day delivery service offered in partnership with Instacart in the U.S. and Uber Eats and DoorDash internationally, also performed extremely well, growing at a faster pace than our overall digital sales. Strong traffic and sales growth in digital were aided by continued web and app improvements as well as the introduction of more personalized member communications.

We continue to see many opportunities to enhance digital engagement with our members and look forward to sharing progress on future earnings calls. Within ancillary businesses, pharmacy, food court, hearing aids and optical departments all had strong quarters. Gas comps were low single digits. Gas prices remained slightly deflationary in the quarter, but this was offset by volume growth. Costco Travel is another way in which we deliver unique membership value, and these services continue to resonate well with our members. Our member-only rates for vacation packages, hotels, cruises and rental cars often lead to hundreds or even thousands of dollars in savings in addition to the great service provided by our fantastic Costco travel agents.

Costco Travel U.S. set an all-time daily sales record on Cyber Monday before beating that record a day later on December 2. In all, we achieved over $100 million in gross bookings in the U.S. through Costco Travel in the 5 days following Thanksgiving, up 12% from last year.

Turning to inflation. Overall, inflation remained relatively consistent with recent quarters. Fresh and food and sundries saw higher inflation in commodities such as beef, seafood and coffee, but this was offset by lower inflation in eggs, cheese, butter and produce. In non-foods, we saw low single-digit inflation for the third consecutive quarter, primarily driven by gold and imported goods. Our buyers continue to do a great job reducing the impact of tariffs for our members. The strategy is being deployed to achieve this include changing the country of production for some items, sourcing more items produced in the U.S., consolidating buying efforts globally to lower the cost of goods across all our markets, and leaning into Kirkland Signature, where we have more control over the supply chain.

Additionally, we are changing our item assortment where appropriate. As discussed last quarter, while we have a robust and exciting holiday merchandise selection in our U.S. warehouses, this represents a lower number of SKUs than in prior years. In replacement of some tariff-impacted items, our buyers have sourced a number of alternative great value items, including seasonal food, health and beauty and live goods. In many cases, these items are produced in the U.S. and are largely unimpacted by tariffs. The supply chain has remained stable, and our merchants feel very good about our inventory position.

By optimizing our inventory flow and reducing some of the higher inventory levels we built up a year ago in the face of greater supply chain uncertainty at that time, we've been able to improve working capital and lower the labor required to manage inventory without impacting in stocks or sales. Finally, in terms of upcoming releases, we will announce our December sales results for the 5 weeks ending Sunday, January 4 and on Wednesday, January 7, after market close. That concludes our prepared remarks, and we'll now open the line up for questions.

