Canadian Pacific Kansas City Limited (CP:CA) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Chris de Bruyn - Vice President Capital Markets & Treasurer
Keith Creel - CEO, President & Director
Mark Redd - Executive VP & COO
John Brooks - Executive VP & Chief Marketing Officer
Nadeem Velani - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Walter Spracklin - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Brian Ossenbeck - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Christian Wetherbee - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Fadi Chamoun - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Jonathan Chappell - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Ravi Shanker - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Brandon Oglenski - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Thomas Wadewitz - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Konark Gupta - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Benoit Poirier - Desjardins Securities Inc., Research Division
Scott Group - Wolfe Research, LLC
Ken Hoexter - BofA Securities, Research Division
Ariel Rosa - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Steven Hansen - Raymond James Ltd., Research Division
David Vernon - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon. My name is Angela, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to CPKC's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Conference Call. The slides accompanying today's call are available at investor.cpkcr.com. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to introduce Chris de Bruyn, Vice President, Capital Markets, to begin the conference call.

Chris de Bruyn
Vice President Capital Markets & Treasurer

Thank you, Angela. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Before we begin, I want to remind you this presentation contains forward-looking information. Actual results may differ. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that could influence actual results are described on Slide 2 in the earnings release filed with Canadian and U.S. regulators. This presentation also contains non-GAAP measures outlined on Slide 3.

With me here today is Keith Creel, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Nadeem Velani, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Brooks, our Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer; and Mark Redd, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. The formal remarks will be followed by Q&A. [Operator Instructions]

It is now my pleasure to introduce our President and CEO, Mr. Keith Creel.

Keith Creel
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Chris, and good afternoon. We thank everyone for joining us to review our fourth quarter results as well as full-year results and to allow our team to share how we see an exciting 2026 playing out.

Now let me start by expressing gratitude and thanks to the 20,000 strong CPKC family, who, through their dedication, hard work and sacrifice allow us to create the results that we're honored to share today. I can tell you this past week, railroading is a demanding way of life, in fact, a consuming way of life. Times like we have navigated through this past week and in fact, navigate on the daily in Canada. Operating in the winter operation reminds me of just how much sacrifice that takes, which I have the deepest amount of respect and appreciation for.

So on to the results, for the fourth quarter, revenue of $3.9 billion, which is up 1% versus last year, an industry best operating ratio of 55.9%, 120 basis points of improvement and earnings per share of $1.33, up 3% versus last year. I'm particularly proud of the job the team did in the quarter, in the face of a demanding -- demand softening in a number of areas and how they honored our mantra of controlling what we can control in our cost structure. The team demonstrated exceptional execution that allowed us to produce the results we produced on the operating ratio side, and we are set up and carrying momentum well into 2026.

As Mark is going to speak to, I also want to applaud the operating team for producing record results across several of our key operating metrics in the quarter. Most importantly, we produced another year of record safety performance. Our network is running well. It's in a great position to execute on the growth opportunities that we have lying ahead of us.

Now let's turn our attention to full-year results. Revenue of $15.1 billion, which is up 4%; volume growth of 4% as well. Operating ratio at industry best at 59.9%, a clear industry best improvement of 140 basis points for the year. Core EPS of $4.61, which is up 8%.

On '26 outlook, as we look forward in 2026, the way we see it unfolding, we fully expect to deliver another year of mid-single-digit volume growth enabled by the strength in our bulk business and particularly, the unique growth drivers the franchise has, which John will speak to. We expect to continue improving margins and ultimately deliver low double-digit earnings growth.

For clarity, this outlook does not assume that we get much out of the macro. Our growth drivers are unique to CPKC and record grain harvest in Canada and the U.S. provides strong and a differentiating base of business. Our story is about continuing to do what we do best, controlling what we can control and executing our PSR model, which remains key to setting CPKC apart and allows us to shine in times of uncertainty. You saw that in the results in the last quarter, and you'll continue to see that in 2026.

On the growth outlook, there are a lot of things to get excited about, uniquely enabled by this network. John will talk about them in more detail, but I'll highlight a few. Grain harvest, an all-time record in Canada, 85 million metric tons versus the previous record of 78 million metric tons, a significant amount of grain to move that's carried into the full year of 2026. That's a record harvest, both in Canada and the U.S. The grain is starting to move now, ingest. And again, we're going to be busy through the balance of this year, moving grain.

Continued growth in intermodal, our MMX-180, 181, the fastest and most reliable service in the industry between the Midwest and deep into Mexico, continues to grow and do extremely well. And we're bringing that same model to Mexico and the U.S. Southeast in partnership with CSX and our Southeast Mexico Express service. That business is just getting started to moving with our partners, we see a ton of opportunity for growth over that corridor is we've created an industry best transit time in partnership with CSX from Atlanta to Dallas over the Meridian Speedway and from Atlanta to Monterrey, truck-competitive to Dallas and superior to truck into Mexico. It can't be replicated about truck into Mexico.

We're also excited about the Americold business, that's ramping up this year along with the continued growth on the international intermodal side with Gemini and also continued growth in our automotive franchise. On the capital side, we're going to continue to invest to support the growth. Last week, we announced continued investment with our locomotives, 100 new locomotives joining the fleet in 2026 in addition to the 100 that we added in 2025.

So with the combination of our strong top line growth, disciplined investment and our continued cost and efficiency improvements, it's put us in an advantageous position to return cash to shareholders, which you just witnessed as we announced a 5% share buyback program for 2026.

So in closing, I'm extremely proud of what we produced amidst a ton of volatility in 2025 and we're super excited about the opportunities ahead. I'll remind you that over the past 2 years, this franchise has outperformed the industry in revenue growth, outperformed the industry in earnings growth. We've got an exciting setup to continue to generate industry-leading performance in 2026 as well.

So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Mark for some color on the operations. John will give you a little insight on the markets, Nadeem on the financial details, and then we'll open it up for Q&A. Mark, over to you.

Mark Redd
Executive VP & COO

Thank you, Keith, and good afternoon. I want to begin by recognizing the operating employees whose commitment to safe, reliable, efficient service continues to drive the strong performance of this network. The operating team did a tremendous job this quarter in delivering these results.

Turning to the quarter, our network performed exceptionally well. We achieved record results across a number of key metrics, including train weight, train speed, locomotive productivity and car velocity. These improvements can translate to faster cycle times, greater network capacity and faster, more reliable customer service.

One thing I'm most proud of is -- proud to announce that 10 years in a row, CPKC has earned Amtrak's Best Carrier designation with an A+ performance. We're the only railroad with this distinction, and we appreciate the recognition from our valued partner.

Taking a step back on progress, we have made substantial operating gains since the merger. When comparing our 2025 operational performance versus the time of merger of 2023, our combined network is 13% faster, locomotive is 13% more product -- productive, our car velocity is nearly 14% stronger. The improvement south of Kansas City is even more pronounced. Looking at 2025 speeds as being over 25% better, locomotive productivity improved roughly 20%.

Looking forward, our operating systems, processes aligned across Canada and the U.S., we expect to deliver additional improvement in 2026. The foundation that we have built positions us for consistent execution and reliable service as volumes continue to grow.

Now turning to safety for the quarter. FRA train accident frequency was 0.91, which is 12% better. FRA personal injuries of 1.05, a 22% increase. When I look at full year 2025, our FRA train accident was 0.85, 16% better; personal injuries was 0.92, was 3% better. I continue to be encouraged by the industry-leading performance. For the third year in a row, CPKC has led lowest FRA reportable train accident frequency across the Class 1 railroads, building upon CP's legacy of 17 consecutive years, so all in all, it's 2 decades of best-in-class.

These results reflect the strength that we have in our Home Safe culture, our investments in technology, which helps prevent failures before they occur.

Now turning to labor, we continue to make progress in this space. Earlier this month, we announced 16 5-year collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. were ratified, covering 700 CPKC employees across the 11 states. These agreements reflect constructive collaboration with our unions and provide service with confidence, provide customers with service and reliability for our network.

Now turning to resources and capital, we remain well aligned with our growth outlook. In 2025, we supported 4% growth with 1% lower average head count, expect continued strong operating leverage in 2026. From a capital perspective, we did receive the 100 Tier IV locomotives in 2025. We have additional 100 scheduled for delivery this year. These locomotives are improving the efficiency and reliability of our fleet and positioning us for continued profitable growth.

In 2026, we will continue our merger-related expansion commitments to the STB. This work includes CTC, additional sidings, Kansas City to Chicago corridor, but this also includes towards Shreveport. These upgrades are improving velocity on the North-South route, which is strengthening our customer service.

In closing, the network is performing at record levels. We are properly resourced to handle grain harvest in Canada and U.S. Our investments in capacity, safety and power are driving sustained meaningful performance gains. We're well positioned to execute our operating plan, support our customers and deliver on our commitments throughout 2026.

And with that, I'll turn it to John.

John Brooks
Executive VP & Chief Marketing Officer

All right. Thank you, Mark, and good afternoon, everyone. So this quarter showed the resilience of our book of business with growth across key segments and traction from new wins offsetting areas of deepening softness. Despite macro and tariff pressures, we delivered to our customers, we captured synergies, we maintained disciplined pricing and advanced initiatives that will support our growth in 2026.

Now looking at our Q4 results. This quarter, we delivered record revenue up 1% on flat RTMs. Cents per RTM was up 1%. Our pricing remained strong with renewals exceeding our long-term 3% to 4% outlook. Mix partially offset the pricing as longer length of haul and higher bulk traffic lowered our cents per RTM.

Now taking a closer look at our fourth quarter revenue performance, I'll speak to an FX-adjusted results. Starting with bulk. Record grain revenues were up 4% on 2% volume growth. Our Canadian grain volumes were up 2% on a record harvest. Export volumes, however, lagged expectations as rain impacted the loading of vessels in Vancouver and farmers chose to store grain volumes, tempering the pace of shipments through the quarter.

U.S. grain volumes were also up 2%, with growth led by higher shipments to the P&W and down to Mexico. Our network continues to uncover new markets and this is especially visible with record-setting Q4 and full-year grain shipments into Mexico.

Turning to the first half of 2026. The North American crop is shaping up to be a record both in Canada and the U.S. As Keith said, estimates points to an 85 million metric ton Canadian harvest, up 20% from last year. We also have a record U.S. corn crop and solid bean production that has recently started to move the market. Finally, we are encouraged by the recent canola trade settlements and new crush capacity coming online in the first half of the year that are going to further support our positive outlook for grain.

Potash revenues were down 2% on 2% volume growth driven by higher export volumes through Vancouver. With solid demand fundamentals and Canpotex fully committed through the first quarter, we expect potash to remain a solid contributor to our overall base this year.

To round out both, coal revenue increased 2% on a 1% decline in volumes. Canadian coal volumes were lower, largely due to mix impact of lapping last year's work stoppage and maintenance at Westshore which ran from August into November. These declines were partially offset by higher volumes of U.S. thermal coal.

Moving to our merchandise franchise. Energy, chemicals and plastics revenue was down 3% on a 5% volume decline. Decline was driven by lower crude and refined fuel volumes to Mexico along with a softer base demand that primarily impacted our plastic shipments. This was partially offset by growth in LPG shipments from Canada to Mexico as we continue to capitalize and grow our land bridge opportunities. Looking ahead, we expect ECP volumes to stabilize as we move through 2026, although the base business in this industrial segment continues to be impacted by the softer macro environment.

Forest Products revenue declined 13% on a 12% decrease in volumes. Volumes were pressured by tariffs on Canadian lumber exports to the U.S., along with ongoing macro softness impacting our pulp and paper business. The team remains laser-focused on project development to continue to try to offset base demand softness and also through extending our length of haul.

Metals, minerals and consumer products revenues and volumes were up 1%. Growth in this space was driven by industrial development and synergies with new business coming on in cement and other aggregates supporting construction projects across our network. This strength was partially offset by continued impact of tariffs on our cross-border steel business. Looking ahead, we remain focused on a number of industrial development opportunities as we continue to navigate the tariff and macro headwinds.

Moving to automotive, revenue was down 3% on 1% volume growth. Our auto franchise delivered volume growth again this quarter despite the impact of production slowdowns along with aluminum supply challenges and a chip shortage, all which contributed a $30 million revenue headwind in the quarter. Looking ahead, despite ongoing certainty with production and auto sales projections, we expect to continue to outperform supported by business secured in 2025 that will benefit us in 2026.

Now closing with intermodal. Revenue was up 3% on 4% volume growth. International intermodal volumes were up 5% on growth with our key ocean carrier partners and lapping the impact of last year's work stoppage at the Port of Vancouver. We remain encouraged by the strong performance of the Gemini alliance and the growth opportunities it is creating across our entire network. Comparisons will be more challenging in the first half of the year. However, the team is focused on the development of new product offerings at the Port Saint John and also down in Lazaro to enable share gains and volume growth to our network.

Domestic intermodal volumes was up 3% in the quarter. We continue to deliver strong growth on our MMX train, which is up approximately 40% year-over-year. As Keith said, our new Americold business is also gaining traction with good visibility for a strong ramp-up as we continue to move through 2026. I'm also extremely excited about the new SMX product with CSX, connecting Dallas and Mexico to the U.S. Southeast. Like our Midwest Mexico product, the SMX train pairs will formally launch in the coming months and will offer the fastest, most reliable service product in these lanes.

In closing, with record grain crops, our self-help initiatives, industrial development projects all coming online, we are well positioned to again offset tariffs and macro headwinds and deliver another year of mid-single-digit RTM growth. We remain focused on execution, disciplined pricing and continuing to capture the full value of our capacity network.

With that, I'll pass it on to Nadeem.

Nadeem Velani
Executive VP & CFO

All right. Thanks, John, and good afternoon. I'm extremely pleased with the team's strong execution in the quarter. While we did deal with temporary demand softness in some areas, the team responded decisively with strong cost control and operational performance, demonstrating the strength and resiliency of our PSR-driven operating model. The ability to optimize assets, control costs and deliver operationally is embedded in our DNA as precision scheduled railroading at CPKC.

Now turning to our fourth quarter on Slide 12, CPKC's reported operating ratio was 58.9%. Our core agenda operating ratio improved 120 basis points year-over-year to a CPKC record, 55.9%. Diluted earnings per share was $1.20, and core adjusted diluted EPS was $1.33, up 3% versus last year.

Turning to our full year results on Slide 13, CPKC's reported operating ratio was 62.8%, and the core adjusted operating ratio improved 140 basis points to 59.9%. Diluted earnings per share was $4.51 and core adjusted diluted earnings per share was $4.61, up 8% year-over-year.

Taking a closer look at our expenses on Slide 14, I will speak to the year-over-year variances on an FX-adjusted basis. Comp and benefits expense, excluding adjustments, was $626 million, flat versus prior year. During the quarter, productivity gains from improved train weights, efficient resource planning and workforce optimization were offset by wage inflation. We expect continued strong labor productivity in 2026 with head count up slightly on mid-single-digit volume growth.

Fuel expense was $430 million, down 8% year-over-year. The decline was driven primarily by the elimination of the Canadian federal carbon tax on April 1 along with improved efficiency from increased train rates.

Materials expense was $112 million. The year-over-year decline was primarily driven by an increased focus on capital works in the quarter. Equipment rents were $97 million, up 4% year-over-year. The increase was driven by higher intermodal car hire payments, reflecting the ramp-up of Gemini volumes and lapping the prior year's labor disruption at the Port of Vancouver. This increase was partially offset by efficiency gains driven by improved network velocity and car cycle times across the network.

Depreciation and amortization was up 7%, resulting from a larger asset base. Purchased services and other expenses, including -- excluding adjustments, was $514 million. The year-over-year decline was driven by productivity and in-sourcing initiatives, partially offset by cost inflation and higher casualty.

Moving below the line on Slide 15. Other components of net periodic benefit recovery were $94 million or $103 million, excluding acquisition-related costs. Net interest expense was $230 million or $225 million, excluding purchase accounting. The increase was driven by interest on new debt issued earlier in the year. Income tax expense was $400 million or $407 million adjusted for significant items of purchase accounting. The core adjusted effective tax rate in the quarter came in at approximately 25%, which is a $40 million headwind versus our Q4 2024 rate. In 2026, we expect a core adjusted effective tax rate of approximately 24.75%.

Turning to Slide 16 and cash flow. 2025 net cash provided by operating activities increased 1% to $5.3 billion, while net cash used in financing activities was up 40%, driven by the share repurchase program. CapEx was $3.1 billion, above our $2.9 billion outlook, largely due to a pull-forward of maintenance capital projects during the fourth quarter to take advantage of work of weather and network conditions. In 2026, we are reducing our capital outlook by 15% to $2.65 billion.

Now turning to share repurchases. Throughout last year, we took advantage of market volatility to reward shareholders, completing our $37 million share repurchase program in late October. Given the strong value that we continue to see in our share price, I'm pleased to announce that our Board has approved a new 5% share repurchase program, allowing us to continue returning cash to shareholders through disciplined and opportunistic capital allocation.

Looking ahead, while macroeconomic conditions and trade policy remain uncertain, we are focused on what we can control, operating a safe, efficient and disciplined PSR railroad while capitalizing on our unique growth opportunities. We expect to deliver low double-digit earnings growth supported by another year of mid-single-digit RTM growth. With industry-leading execution, a compelling growth pipeline and strong free cash growth, the future is extremely bright.

With that, let me turn it over back over to Keith.

Keith Creel
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, gentlemen. Operator, we'll open it up for questions.

