Circle Internet Group, Inc. (CRCL) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 12, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

John Andrews - Vice President of Capital Markets & Investor Relations
Jeremy Allaire - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Jeremy Fox-Geen - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Peter Christiansen - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Jeffrey Cantwell - Seaport Research Partners
Joseph Vafi - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
Devin Ryan - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
John Todaro - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Kenneth Suchoski - Autonomous Research US LP
Dan Dolev - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Adib Choudhury - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
James Yaro - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Kenneth Worthington - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is Krista, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome you to the Circle Group -- Circle Internet Group Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to John Andrews, Vice President of Capital Markets and Investor Relations. John, you may begin.

John Andrews
Vice President of Capital Markets & Investor Relations

Thank you, operator, and good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Circle's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. I'm joined by Jeremy Allaire, our Co-Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, and Jeremy Fox-Geen, our Chief Financial Officer. Earlier this morning, we posted our earnings press release and earnings presentation on the Circle Investor Relations website, investor.circle.com. A transcript of this call will be posted on that website once available.

I do need to remind everyone that our earnings press release, presentation and this call contain statements that are forward looking. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and some of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events and circumstances reflected in our forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur, and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.

Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause these results to differ is included in our SEC filings. We will also disclose non-GAAP financial measures on this call today. Definitions of those non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in the earnings press release and earnings presentation, which are posted on Circle's Investor Relations website, investor.circle.com. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for GAAP measures.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Jeremy Allaire.

Jeremy Allaire
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thank you, John. I'm excited to talk with all of you today about our quarterly results and general outlook. But before I do, I want to talk about our broader vision for what is taking place in this market, a vision of an internet financial system that guides what we're building towards at Circle. Our vision from the beginning has been that a new set of open Internet infrastructure and open software infrastructure would collide with the global financial system and ultimately transform it. We are moving more and more towards that world and realizing that vision.

What we are seeing emerge is the opportunity to build a full-stack Internet financial platform company with several platform layers. The first layer, blockchain networks are becoming foundational operating systems for economic activity on the Internet, what we call economic OSs for the Internet. These infrastructure layers will be part of migrating coordination, governance, value storage, financial contracts and other forms of economic intermediation into a software-powered and agentic economic system. This is an enormous platform and infrastructure opportunity that we believe is even larger than any past Internet platform technology.

On top of these economic OSs is the second platform layer of digital assets. This includes stablecoins, Internet native digital assets based on protocols and applications and broader tokenization, including the tokenization of traditional assets and many other types of economic contracts. All of these digital assets will be built on the first layer of blockchain networks, the economic OSs for the Internet. This digital asset layer is fundamental to how economic value will be stored, transformed, transmitted and exchanged all around the world.

On top of the blockchain and digital asset layers is the third layer, new application utilities that are built for the Internet economy, application utilities for payments, commerce, treasury management, capital formation, lending, governance and many other applications that are fundamental to economic activity. Full-stack Internet financial platforms are emerging, and Circle intends to be the leader in this space.

With that backdrop, I want to discuss our latest results and our progress in expanding our platform and building towards the vision that I just described. In Q3, we saw very strong growth in our network. USDC in circulation grew 108% year-over-year to $73.7 billion. This is tremendous growth. And we're very proud that our growth also represents continued market share expansion. Moreover, the amount of onchain transactions using USDC grew 580% year-over-year to $9.6 trillion in Q3, underscoring the inherent and increasing velocity and efficiency of using USDC as a medium of exchange. This increasing velocity of money is a crucial feature of the Internet financial system. We had strong financial results in the third quarter.

We realized $740 million in total revenue and reserve income, representing 66% year-on-year growth. Our adjusted EBITDA grew 78% year-on-year to $166 million, with a 57% adjusted EBITDA margin, a 737 basis point expansion. And we've delivered continued expansion in our platform. We launched Arc into public testnet in recent weeks with over 100 major participants. I'm going to talk more about that in a few minutes.

We're also sharing today that we are exploring the possibility of launching a native token on the Arc Network, which we think could be an important component for driving utility, incentives, growth and governance of the Arc Network. We saw Circle Payments Network product expansion with multiple product releases and significant growth in transaction volumes, and we've continued to expand our stablecoin network across more chains with 5 new chain launches and 28 supported chains today, part of our deep commitment to maintaining a strongly market-neutral position.

And adoption has been expanding across a range of use cases, industries and types of firms. Overall, the stablecoin market has continued to grow strongly, and Circle continues to gain share. On a year-over-year basis, stablecoins in circulation grew 59%. Because we grew faster than the overall market, Circle's share grew to 29% in the third quarter. Based on Visa's published analysis, stablecoin transaction volumes have grown approximately 130% year-over-year with USDC share expanding to 40% in Q3. And as you can see, the dollar stablecoin space remains a market with 2 leading issuers and a number of much smaller players as we continue to sustain our strong position despite increasing competition.

At the heart of our competitive position are durable and powerful network effects that are anchored in several areas: the trust that we have enshrined in our infrastructure by being regulated, audited, public, transparent and compliant; the core liquidity infrastructure, our reserve infrastructure with systemically important banks and banking connectivity around the world providing at-scale minting and redemption. But also our broad distribution across blockchain networks and ecosystems, which has helped sustain the broader utility of our network.

And we continue to innovate in product and technology and developer services which provides powerful infrastructure for application developers, financial infrastructure companies and others to build on. Crucially, we have been able to maintain our competitive position by being a market-neutral infrastructure that leading companies can build on top of. Our stablecoin network growth remains strong. As already noted, onchain transaction volume grew to $9.6 trillion in the quarter, up from $5.9 trillion in Q2.

CCTP, our Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol is a key infrastructure in enabling capital efficient and secure transfers of digital dollars across blockchain networks, applications and services. CCTP volume grew approximately 640% year-over-year to $31.3 billion in Q3. And in fact, over the quarter of all bridged volume of all assets from major bridge providers that we track, CCTP represented 47% of all of that traffic. In October, it was over 50%.

This is really key as we think about the expanding role that Circle can play in providing infrastructure that supports broader cross-chain interoperability for digital assets. We're continuing to gain share in digital asset trading markets as well. It's a key priority for us. And you see this in our growing share of spot trading year-over-year and then the ongoing expansion of USDC within perpetual markets, in particular, on platforms such as Binance, the world's largest centralized exchange and Hyperliquid, the largest decentralized exchange.

From June 30 to November 8, we've seen our tokenized money market fund, USYC, more than triple in size to approximately $1 billion, making it the second largest TMMF in the world. This is an important part of our growth in tokenized collateral for digital asset markets. And use case expansion and adoption is growing. We're seeing adoption in capital markets, in payments, in the digital assets ecosystem with banking infrastructure providers and to provide dollar access around the world, including with leading companies such as Brex, Deutsche Börse, Fireblocks, Finastra, Kraken and Itaú, the largest bank in Latin America. These are all key use cases with industry-leading companies that chose to work with Circle and which will be important to the ongoing growth and adoption of our stablecoin network.

While USDC and Circle's broader stablecoin network are central to our business today, we are continuing to expand our platform across key dimensions. Coming back to this idea of building a full-stack Internet platform company, Circle has been methodically building infrastructure that goes down the stack into the core network operating system layer with Arc and moving up the stack into the application utility layer with CPN. With Arc, we've just delivered a critical and significant milestone in recent weeks with the launch of the Arc public testnet.

When we think about this layer of infrastructure, we really look at it as an operating system layer, an economic OS for the Internet. Over prior decades, there have been fundamental platform shifts for how software infrastructure supported growth in the utility of the Internet, the web as an OS for information and data, the evolution into mobile as an organizing operating environment, cloud as an operating infrastructure and then other core utilities such as social, search and commerce, helping to organize ecosystems, platforms and activity. And now we're seeing 2 new major operating system paradigms, AI platforms and blockchain platforms.

With Arc, we've created something that is enterprise-grade and purpose built to bring stablecoin finance and real-world economic activity on chain. Our public testnet launched with over 100 world-class companies spanning every major category of the financial industry, major payments firms, technology companies, fintechs and broad support across the digital asset markets industry. From Apollo to AWS, BlackRock, HSBC, Mastercard, Standard Chartered, Visa and so many other tremendous firms who are testing, evaluating and collaborating with Circle as we seek to bring Arc to commercial mainnet launch in 2026. We've also been activating Arc across our entire Circle product suite, making it seamless for developers and all participants in the ecosystem to take advantage of this new infrastructure from Circle as they prepare for Arc mainnet.

Our vision for Arc is of a globally distributed network with infrastructure operators all around the world, in every region of the world, from every economic system in the world. And we envision strong stakeholder incentives and governance to help drive the adoption and evolution of this network. Consistent with that thinking, Circle is actively exploring the introduction of a native token on the Arc Network. This is an exciting development that we're actively looking at, and we'll share more as we continue our exploration. We are also seeing strong early momentum for Circle Payments Network, and we have expanded the CPN product portfolio. We launched CPN Console which brings self-service operations to CPN members for onboarding, integration and operating payment flows on behalf of their customers. This will streamline our ability to bring more members and more institutions onto the network.

CPN Marketplace itself has continued to expand as I'll talk about momentarily. And we launched a new capability called CPN Payouts, which is purpose-built for automated stablecoin payouts on CPN. We've seen a number of financial institutions enrolled on the network grow to 29. We've also seen more and more institutions that are actively engaged in eligibility reviews to integrate to our network, including 55 financial institutions. And the overall pipeline of financial institutions seeking to join CPN has grown to 500.

Across these participants are global systemically important banks, payment service providers, cross-border firms, neobanks, digital asset firms and many others. We've continued to expand the markets where CPN is available with live flows happening across Brazil, Canada, China, Hong Kong, India, Mexico, Nigeria and the United States. And we expect upcoming launches for flows into Colombia, the European Union, the Philippines, Singapore, the UAE and the United Kingdom to name a few.

We've also been seeing strong early adoption with rapid growth in CPN's monthly total payment volume from our first full month only 5 months ago to November 7, we've seen over 100x growth in trailing 30-day payment volumes. As of last Friday, annualized transaction volume based on trailing 30 days is $3.4 billion. We're excited about this expansion of Circle's platform, continuing to build out what we believe can be one of the most significant and broadly adopted Internet financial platforms in the world.

With that, I'm pleased to turn this over to Jeremy Fox-Geen for the financial review.

Jeremy Fox-Geen
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Jeremy, and good morning, everyone. 2025 continues to be a year defined by growth, and I'm pleased to report we continued this momentum in the third quarter, delivering strong financial results. I'll start by briefly recapping the fundamentals of our business and financial model. Stablecoins are a network business and successful networks are enduring and valuable. Our strategy remains to grow and deepen our network. We earn reserve income on the assets backing our stablecoins, and we incentivize strategic partners to grow distribution and our network. Over the last year, we have expanded our revenue lines and now earn other revenue from certain of our transaction flows and network infrastructure. And as an Internet platform business, we have a highly scalable model with strong inherent operating leverage.

Let me now review the quarter. USDC in circulation was $73.7 billion at quarter end, more than doubling year-on-year and growing faster than the overall market. USDC held within Circle's platform infrastructure grew nearly 14x year-on-year to $10.2 billion at quarter end, representing 14% of total circulation as increasingly, we are seeing leading institutions build upon our platform. Reserve return rate was 4.15% for the third quarter, down 96 basis points year-on-year, reflecting the decline in SOFR during this period. Total revenue and reserve income increased 66% year-on-year to $740 million for the quarter as growth in USDC circulation was partly offset by that lower reserve return rate.

Total distribution and transaction and other costs increased 74% year-on-year to $448 million. The increase was driven primarily by higher average USDC balances held on Coinbase's platform and other distribution incentives as we continue to build partnerships to drive growth and adoption. RLDC margin was 39.5% in the quarter, down 270 basis points year-on-year, but strengthening 133 basis points sequentially from the second quarter, reflecting the impact from growth with certain higher-margin products and partners. Other revenues, which are high margin and scalable, increased to $29 million from less than $1 million in the prior year, reflecting the new products and services launched since the second half of 2024. Subscription and services revenue was $23.6 million in the third quarter, primarily from revenue from our blockchain network partnerships. We added 5 new chains this quarter and 12 new chains this year.

Transaction revenue was $4.7 million. Total revenue and reserve income less distribution transaction and other costs grew 55% year-over-year to $292 million. Adjusted operating expenses, which excludes depreciation and amortization, digital asset gains and losses and stock-based compensation grew 35% year-over-year to $131 million for the quarter, as we continue to invest in growing our platform and distribution at this pivotal time for our industry. Notably, this measure includes payroll taxes, which since our IPO also includes payroll taxes on stock-based compensation. These new payroll taxes on stock comp were $5 million in the third quarter. Adjusting for these new payroll taxes to make for a cleaner comparison, our underlying adjusted operating expenses grew 29% year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA grew 78% year-over-year to $166 million, reflecting the strong operating leverage inherent in our model. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded both year-over-year and sequentially to 57%.

Let me conclude with a brief update on our outlook. We are at the beginning of meaningful shifts in the global markets for money, and we manage our business for long-term success. Moreover, several of our core performance drivers are visible to the market in real time. As such, we do not give detailed quarterly or full financial guidance. We do, however, provide full year guidance on certain metrics to help our investors better understand our expected performance. We will update this guidance when we expect our performance to materially deviate from that guidance.

Our USDC circulation outlook is long term and through cycle and remains unchanged. We are increasing other revenue full year 2025 guidance to $90 million to $100 million as a result of strong subscription and services revenue in Q3 and underlying growth dynamics in transactions revenue. We expect RLDC margin to end the year around 38% at the high end of our range, reflecting strong on-platform performance.

We are increasing our adjusted operating expenses for the year to $495 million to $510 million, reflecting growing investments in building our platform capabilities and global partnerships. This also reflects the impact from payroll taxes related to the potential future exercise of options by Circle employees. Overall, we've delivered a strong third quarter with meaningful growth and margin expansion. We're only just beginning to attack the opportunity before us and remain excited about our future. I want to thank the team here at Circle for your continued hard work and thank our investors and analysts for your support and engagement.

With that, operator, we can now start the Q&A portion of the call.