Credo Technology Group Holding Ltd (CRDO) Q2 2026 Earnings Call December 1, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Daniel O'Neil - Vice President of Corporate Development & Investor Relations
William Brennan - President, CEO & Chairman
Daniel Fleming - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Thomas O'Malley - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Tore Svanberg - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Vivek Arya - BofA Securities, Research Division
Quinn Bolton - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Sujeeva De Silva - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Vijay Rakesh - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Sean O'Loughlin - TD Cowen, Research Division
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Karl Ackerman - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Joseph Cardoso - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Sebastien Cyrus Naji - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. [Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the conference over to Dan O'Neil. Please go ahead, sir.

Daniel O'Neil
Vice President of Corporate Development & Investor Relations

Good afternoon. Thank you for joining our earnings call for the second quarter of fiscal 2026. Today, I'm joined by Bill Brennan, Credo's Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Fleming, Credo's Chief Financial Officer.

During this call, we will make certain forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties discussed in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, which can be found in the Investor Relations section of the company's website. It's not possible for the company's management to predict all risks nor can the company assess the impact of all factors on its business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Given these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed during this call may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied.

The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this call to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in the company's expectations, except as required by law. Also, during this call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, which we consider to be important measures of the company's performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided in addition to and not as a substitute for or superior to financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. A discussion of why we use non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations between our GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures is available in the earnings release we issued today, which can be accessed using the Investor Relations portion of our website. I will now turn the call over to our CEO. Bill?

William Brennan
President, CEO & Chairman

Thanks, Dan, and thank you, everyone, for joining our fiscal '26 second quarter earnings call. I'll walk through our Q2 results, highlight the transformative developments we've announced since our last call and then share our forward outlook. After my remarks, our Chief Financial Officer, Dan Fleming, will provide a detailed financial review and our guidance for the third quarter. In the second quarter, we delivered record revenue of $268 million, representing 20% sequential growth from Q1 and an extraordinary 272% increase year-over-year. Non-GAAP gross margin came in at a robust 67.7%, and we generated approximately $128 million of non-GAAP net income.

These are the strongest quarterly results in Credo's history, and they reflect the continued build-out of the world's largest AI training and inference clusters. AI clusters are no longer measured in tens of thousands of GPUs. They're now measured in hundreds of thousands and soon millions. The scale, density and complexity of these systems are pushing every aspect of interconnect. Reliability, power efficiency, signal integrity, latency, reach and total cost of ownership have all become mission-critical. This is the challenge our customers face, and it's where Credo is uniquely positioned to deliver the solutions they need to succeed.

Our 3-tiered innovation framework, purpose-built SerDes technology, world-class IC design and a true system-level development approach, all wrapped with our industry-leading pilot debug and telemetry platform has allowed us to forge deep strategic partnerships. Let me now walk through our business in detail. Starting with our active electrical cables. The AEC product line remains the fastest-growing segment in the company. AEC revenue again grew strongly, driven by rapidly increasing customer diversity. In Q2, 4 hyperscalers each contributed more than 10% of total revenue. The fourth hyperscaler is now in full volume ramp and a fifth started contributing initial revenue. Customer forecasts have strengthened across the board in the past months. AECs have become the de facto standard for inter-rack connectivity and are now displacing optical rack-to-rack connections up to 7 meters.

At 100 gig per lane today and 200 gig per lane tomorrow, zero-flap AECs deliver up to 1,000x better reliability than traditional laser-based optical modules while consuming roughly half the power. When you're installing a 100,000 GPU cluster, Link Flaps can delay time to stability and time to revenue. And when you're training a model costing tens of millions of dollars, Link flaps can have a significant impact on overall uptime and productivity. It is this step function improvement in reliability and power efficiency that's driving the expansion of the AEC TAM in 100 gig and now 200 gig per lane generations. And we expect that trend to continue as customers densify racks and push cluster scale to new levels.

Next, our IC business, which includes retimers and optical DSPs, also continued the strong performance. We expect significant optical DSP growth in fiscal '26, driven by 50-gig and 100-gig per lane deployments with longer-term growth driven by our 200-gig per lane solutions. Live demonstrations last quarter of our 200-gig per lane Bluebird optical DSP drew significant interest and extremely positive feedback. Ethernet retimers remain important in both traditional switching fabrics and the fast-growing AI server segment, where features like MACsec encryption, gearbox functionality and rich software programmability are highly valued. Our PCIe retimer and AEC families are also progressing on plan. Customer silicon evaluations have consistently highlighted our best-in-class combination of reach, latency and power efficiency, a rare trifecta enabled by our unique purpose-built SerDes architecture.

We remain on track for PCIe design wins in fiscal '26, followed by meaningful production revenue in fiscal '27. Our existing AEC and IC businesses both address multibillion-dollar market opportunities with excellent visibility for continued growth. But the truly exciting part of this quarter is that we've added 3 entirely new growth pillars, each representing distinct multibillion-dollar market opportunities that significantly expand our total addressable market and extend the reach and depth of our connectivity leadership. The first new growth pillar is Zero Flap optics, the first laser-based optical connectivity family that delivers AEC class network reliability, enabled by a customized optical DSP that is tightly coupled with our pilot software and integrated with a switch level SDK, our Zero Flap optics integrate with our customers' network software.

Link Health telemetry data on each optical link enables autonomous detection and mitigation of conditions that cause link flaps before they bring down the cluster. This enables a step function improvement in network reliability. We're currently in live data center trials with our lead partner, and we expect to begin sampling a second U.S. hyperscaler later this fiscal year. Our ZF optics solutions expand our addressable market to any length of connection within the data center. We anticipate initial revenue in fiscal '27 and long term, a market that will be a multibillion-dollar opportunity. The second new pillar of growth was announced in September. Credo has combined forces with Ottawa-based Hyperlume, a team of experts specializing in high-performance microLED technology.

Credo has been investing in micro LED innovation over the past 18 months with the intent of developing a new class of connectivity solutions. Uniting with the Hyperlume team will accelerate our time to market. As a first product, we'll develop and bring to market a pluggable optical solution that utilizes micro LEDs as the light source. Our same 3-tiered innovation playbook will be the catalyst to pioneering this entirely new connectivity category we call active LED cables or ALCs. ALCs will deliver the same reliability and power profile as an AEC, but in a thin gauge cable that can reach up to 30 meters and is ideal for row scale scale-up networks. Customer reaction has been very positive. We plan to sample the first ALC products to lead customers during our fiscal '27 with initial revenue ramping in fiscal '28.

We believe the ALC TAM will ultimately be more than double the size of the AEC TAM. Finally, we announced the third new pillar of long-term revenue growth, OmniConnect gearboxes, a family of products that will enable a disaggregated and optimized approach to XDU connectivity. In November, together with our lead customer, we unveiled the first gearbox that will address that memory wall by redefining memory to compute connectivity, a solution we call Weaver. Today's on-package high-bandwidth memory is capacity and throughput limited as well as expensive and supply chain constrained. Weaver allows designers to move to commodity DDR memory and achieve up to 30x more memory capacity and 8x the bandwidth.

The key enabler for the OmniConnect family is Credo's purpose-built 112-gig VSR SerDes that enables a 10x improvement in beachfront I/O density and has a reach of up to 10 inches. The Weaver gearbox from 112-gig BSR to DDR effectively overcomes the physical and logical limitation of current memory to compute connectivity solutions. Our first customer for Weaver announced their plan to deliver an XPU targeted for inference with 2 terabytes of memory capacity, a complete game changer for workloads such as real-time AI video generation and full self-driving, where memory capacity and bandwidth are the primary gating factors. Industry forecasters project the memory to compute connectivity market to be a multibillion-dollar market by the end of the decade.

We anticipate initial revenue in our fiscal '28 with significant scaling thereafter. The next OmniConnect gearboxes to be introduced will provide a future-enabled path to scale out, scale up and near package optics connectivity with XPUs. In summary, we now have 5 distinct high-growth connectivity pillars: AECs, IC solutions, including retimers and optical DSPs, zero-flap optics, ALCs and OmniConnect Gearbox solutions. Together, they'll give Credo a combined total market opportunity that we believe will exceed $10 billion in the coming years, more than triple where we stood just 18 months ago.

Looking forward, we couldn't be more excited about the combination of continued growth in our core AEC and IC businesses, plus the upcoming ramps of ZeroFlap optics, ALCs and OmniConnect gearboxes. We believe this combination gives us a strong outlook into continued revenue growth through fiscal '26 and well beyond. Team Credo continues to execute at an elite level, delivering record results quarter after quarter while simultaneously pioneering and launching new multibillion-dollar product categories. I'm proud of our world-class operational excellence and innovation. With that, I'll turn the call over to Dan Fleming for a detailed financial review and our Q3 guidance.

Daniel Fleming
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Bill, and good afternoon. I will first review our Q2 results and then discuss our outlook for Q3 of fiscal year '26. In Q2, we reported revenue of $268 million, up 20% sequentially and up 272% year-over-year and well above the high end of our guidance range. Our product business generated $261.3 million of revenue in Q2, up 20% sequentially and up 278% year-over-year. Notably, our AEC product line again grew healthy double digits sequentially to achieve new record revenue levels once again based on substantial year-over-year growth across 4 domestic hyperscale customers. Our top 4 end customers were each greater than 10% of revenue in Q2.

As a reminder, customer mix will vary from quarter-to-quarter, and we continue to make progress in diversifying our customer base. We continue to expect that 3 to 4 customers will be greater than 10% of revenue in the coming quarters and fiscal year as hyperscale customers continue to ramp to more significant volumes and as we expect to begin to ramp an additional hyperscale customer in the coming quarters. Our team delivered Q2 non-GAAP gross margin of 67.7%, above the high end of our guidance range and up 11 basis points sequentially. Our product non-GAAP gross margin was 66.8% in the quarter, up 18 basis points sequentially and up 469 basis points year-over-year. Total non-GAAP operating expenses in the second quarter were $57.3 million, slightly above the midpoint of our guidance range and up 5% sequentially.

Our non-GAAP operating income was $124.1 million in Q2 compared to non-GAAP operating income of $96.2 million in Q1, up demonstrably due to the leverage attained by achieving more than 20% sequential top line growth, while OpEx growth was in the mid-single digits. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 46.3% in the quarter compared to a non-GAAP operating margin of 43.1% in the prior quarter, a sequential increase of 319 basis points. Our bottom line once again demonstrated the substantial leverage we are delivering in the business. Our non-GAAP net income was $127.8 million in the quarter, a record high and a 30% sequential increase compared to non-GAAP net income of $98.3 million in Q1. And our non-GAAP net margin was 47.7% in the quarter as we drove significant leverage in the business.

Cash flow from operations in the second quarter was $61.7 million, up $7.5 million sequentially. CapEx was $23.2 million in the quarter, driven largely by purchases of production MACsec. And free cash flow was $38.5 million, down from $51.3 million from the first quarter due to higher CapEx investments. We ended the quarter with cash and equivalents of $813.6 million, an increase of $333.9 million from the first quarter, up largely from the proceeds of our ATM offering, which began in October. We remain well capitalized to continue investing in our growth opportunities while maintaining a substantial cash buffer. Our Q2 ending inventory was $150.2 million, up $33.5 million sequentially.

Now turning to our guidance. We currently expect revenue in Q3 of fiscal '26 to be between $335 million and $345 million, up 27% sequentially at the midpoint. We expect Q3 non-GAAP gross margin to be within a range of 64% to 66%. We expect Q3 non-GAAP operating expenses to be between $68 million and $72 million. We expect Q3 diluted weighted average share count to be approximately 194 million shares. These expectations are based on the current tariff regime, which remains fluid. As we look toward the end of fiscal year '26 and into fiscal '27, we expect sequential revenue growth in the mid-single digits, leading to more than 170% year-over-year growth in the current fiscal year. We expect each of our top 4 customers from Q2 to grow significantly year-over-year in fiscal year '26.

We also expect revenue diversification to strengthen further with our fourth customer surpassing the 10% revenue threshold for this fiscal year. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to increase year-over-year by approximately 50% in fiscal year '26. As a result, we expect our non-GAAP net margin to be approximately 45% for fiscal year '26. This should translate to net income more than quadrupling year-over-year. And with that, I will open it up for questions.