Salesforce, Inc. (CRM) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 3, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Michael Spencer - Executive Vice President of Investor Relations
Marc Benioff - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Robin Washington - President, Chief Operating & Financial Officer and Director
Miguel Milano - President & Chief Revenue Officer
Srinivas Tallapragada - President, Chief Engineering & Customer Success Officer

Conference Call Participants

Keith Weiss - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Brad Zelnick - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Brent Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
S. Kirk Materne - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Bradley Sills - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Leila, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome you to the Salesforce Third Quarter Fiscal 2026 Conference Call. This conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mike Spencer, Executive Vice President of Finance and Strategy and Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

Michael Spencer
Executive Vice President of Investor Relations

Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us today on our fiscal 2026 third quarter results conference call. Our press release, SEC filings and a replay of today's call can be found on our website.

Joining me on the call today is Marc Benioff, Chair and CEO; Robin Washington, Chief Operating and Finance Officer. We also have Srini Tallapragada, President and Chief Engineering and Customer Success Officer; and Miguel Milano, President and Chief Revenue Officer, joining us for the Q&A portion of the call.

Some of our comments today may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, which could change. Should any of these risks materialize or should our assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual company results or outcomes could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. A description of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions and other factors that could affect our financial results or outcomes is included in our SEC filings, including our most recent report on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and any other SEC filings. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any responsibility to update these forward-looking statements.

As a reminder, our commentary today will include non-GAAP measures and reconciliations between our GAAP and non-GAAP results and guidance can be found in our earnings materials and press release.

And with that, let me hand the call over to Marc.

Marc Benioff
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

All right. Great job, Mike. And thanks, everyone, for joining us today. Well, as you can see -- first of all, great seeing everyone at Dreamforce. We're so happy that you are all with us. And now you can see we've delivered strong results for the quarter across all of our key metrics. We're continuing to execute on the path to our $60 billion dream that we outlined in detail with you -- all of you at Investor Day. And we delivered really strong bookings. Miguel is here. He's going to talk to you about that.

And we have delivered incredible results with Agentforce. It's really exceeding our expectations. We're going to hit all the details, but I think that you could see 3.2 trillion tokens delivered for our customers. It's all exceeding our expectations. We're going to get into all of that detail as well.

That's the core of our organic innovation. We're making these disciplined strategic acquisitions like Informatica also now online in the company. We're really excited about the harmonization, integration, federation that Informatica plus Data 360 plus MuleSoft is giving us. And that's going to strengthen our overall leadership in data and, of course, AI. And we're ensuring that we have the distribution capacity. That's extremely important for us because we are a direct seller in place to support long-term growth. And Miguel has made some fantastic investments over the last 12 months in all of our core segments, and we're going to talk about that as well.

And finally, Robin is going to speak in more detail about the capital allocation strategy and the investments that we're making for fiscal year '27, which we're getting very excited about and a very clear focus on our continued path for, I would say, a very sustainable, profitable, durable growth and innovation in the company.

Now you are all at Dreamforce, you saw that energy, the level of customer success, it exceeded my expectations. And you saw how we're bringing humans, data, AI, apps together to build the agentic enterprise. And we just couldn't be more excited about that and how customers are receiving the message.

Every CEO I met at Dreamforce, and I mean, every CEO I speak to just in the last couple of days, I had some great meetings. And I'll tell you that everyone knows that they want to get to the next level in their business to bring AI in, become more productive, become more efficient, become elevated, as Matthew said in the opening video. But they all know they now -- they've got to become these agentic enterprises. And I don't think for a lot of them, like 2 years, 3 years ago, maybe even a year ago, they really understood that opportunity. And they are now more motivated than ever to do it. We're going to hear about that, some story, great stories, from the quarter.

And of course, we've all read that crazy MIT study where customers went off trying to build their own models and trying to build their own toolkits and this and that and DIY it and now they realized the real value from AI is delivering, number one, customer agents, and we have so many examples, but now I think about $500 million in Agentforce revenue, talking about customer agents.

But also what's really exciting here at Salesforce, and some of you have seen it, but probably a lot of you haven't is employee agents. And we've really delivered an incredible new framework, deeply integrated into our Slack product. Every Salesforce employee already uses it every day, I do, and it's the core of every demonstration we give to our customers to show how we have unleashed with Slack something new called Slackbot, which is really the heart of our employee agent strategy.

And you're going to see that it's incredible. It is able to go not only through Slack, but -- and not only through the whole Internet, but also through all of our customers' data that they have basically provisioned in a secure way through Salesforce as well and deliver context. And I'll tell you, now before I do a customer visit or a call or whatever it is, I'll just kind of sit right down. I was with a really good friend of mine. Just this weekend, I had lunch with him, and he's a top venture capitalist, and he had been a huge investor in Coinbase. And I'll tell you that we were just sitting there, just talking about, "Hey, tell me about everything with your venture capital company, tell me everything about this venture capitalist and then also tell me everything about Coinbase and the company and our relationship.

And then bam, it's able to deliver to me an absolute and complete not only analysis, not only a summarization, not only all of the detail, but next steps, how to sell, what I should do exactly for the customer. And I love demoing this to customers because they don't think it's possible. And then when they see it, they say, "Wow, this is what AI was meant to be." And I'm like, this is context. This is data. This is apps. This is the best of the large language models and delivering it all to you. Well, anyway, let's get into the quarter.

Q3 revenue was up $10.26 billion. It's up 9% year-over-year, 8% in constant currency. Our non-GAAP operating margin came in strong at 35.5%. And cRPO was outstanding. You see already $29.4 billion, up 11%. Miguel is going to talk about this great quarter we had, the best quarter, I think we've had actually in 3 years and 11% in constant currency and RPO is nearly $60 billion, growing 12% year-over-year, kind of huge numbers, but very exciting, considering we've also rebuilt all the products as well and delivering this AI future for everyone.

This really is signaling to us that it's a strong pipeline of future revenue as customers ground their AI future and Agentforce. And the third quarter operating cash flow was a whopping $2.3 billion, up 17% year-over-year.

Free cash flow was $2.2 billion, up 22% year-over-year, and we expect to finish the year with nearly $15 billion in operating cash flow. That was pretty awesome, I think. I think it's more operating cash flow at $15 billion than even Walmart. So that's awesome.

Agentforce and Data reached nearly $1.4 billion in ARR in the quarter, up 114% year-over-year, including Agentforce ARR of about $540 million, 330% year-over-year. And I think all of our account executives, I think we got about 15,000, I don't know what the exact number is out there, are all selling this down, where people really can understand it. We can demo it, we can show it. But I think you've all seen like what our customers are doing.

And the one I love and that I use because I'm a huge customer is Williams-Sonoma's version of Agentforce, which they call Olive. And if you haven't been on the Williams Support -- Williams-Sonoma's website and seen the sous chef that they call Olive and used it, I think the quality is what I'm most impressed with that it's really very, very good. You don't see hallucinizations. You see really kind of the customer personality, the quality, the ability to deliver value, and they are saying it's about 60% of their chats. We've got a whole another level to go with them with voice, which is coming, which is very exciting. This is our fastest-growing product ever.

And every Salesforce app now, not just sales, service, marketing, commerce, all of them, Tableau, Slack, our new ITSM, supply chain products, they've all been rebuilt, and Srini is here, he's going to talk about what we've done to bring Agentforce into every product we have. And they -- we transform Agentforce from being a product to a platform so that all of our apps can reason, learn, take action, collaborate with users, but it's really about humans and apps and the AI and the data all working together.

And that is what's so exciting that every part of our platform is now so deeply integrated and because all the data is unified and every app shares the same metadata. They speak the same language, and you really get that feeling when you are using the Slackbot, and Srini will tell you about it because all of a sudden, Slackbot is able to like read across all of our data, but then talk directly to you and give you that elevated experience.

So when an LLM is interacting with Agentforce, it's getting that strategic context from our data, from the data on the Internet as well, from the data that it's been trained in. And then how you -- knows how your business operates, it's really able to give you that. And that's because Salesforce is unique in that we have the data that makes business more valuable. It's that customer data, the service data, the sales data, the marketing data, and then we're able to deliver it in a tremendously friendly way.

We've rebuilt all of our products to deliver this agentic enterprise, really just getting going. I think Srini will tell you if we were really brainstorm. I mean a few years ago when we first created our GPT series where we're starting to begin to integrate the large language models. I don't think we exactly knew that at this point, we'll be able to deliver this incredible customer agent experience and this incredible employee agent experience.

In fact, 6 of our top 10 deals in the quarter are now driven by companies that just want to transform with Agentforce. And that's a big thought because a year ago, we were basically just starting to ship the product. It was just coming out of beta. It was like a very strong version 1, but it's more than a strong version 1 now.

And I think everyone can go and look at that example with Williams-Sonoma or with SharkNinja or with -- I mean, there's so many great examples that I use every day. I know Miguel has got his remarkable pad in front of him. So I think that in just a year since we introduced Agentforce, we've closed over 18,500 Agentforce deals, 9,500 of them are paid transactions. It's up 50% quarter-over-quarter. All of our reps now kind of have the acuity. They've got the nomenclature. They're enabled. That was a huge lift for us to start to bring the whole company into this AI revolution and give them the tools and now these great customer examples.

And it's happening around the world. I just got back from Japan, and I saw it there. I was in the U.K., I saw it there. I've seen, obviously, throughout the whole United States. It's really a global phenomenon.

So Agentforce is now powered. Here's a few interesting things. Agentforce is powered 1.2 billion large language model calls that's interactions when agents invoke a model to understand context and decide the next best action across the apps. You've seen the omnichannel supervisor like built into the Service Cloud, where all of a sudden, I'm a customer, I'm coming into the website, even like Salesforce to help.salesforce.com or any of our customers' websites, and I'm in there, and I'm working and then all of a sudden, I've hit kind of the limit of what the LLM can do, I can escalate immediately, also write to a human. And that's where the humans and the agents and the AI and the data all have to work together.

And our top 50 customers, including -- and Miguel has got this story in his pocket, but Falabella, Vivint, DIRECTV, there's so many great stories, more than 200 million Agentforce LLM calls in Q3 alone on track to power another $2 billion over the next year. And those LLMs now are calling these Agentforce actions such as updating the opportunities, creating a case, handling service inquiry and the number of average weekly actions has now risen about 140% Q-over-Q.

So we're really seeing the adoption and the usage, and that's what we're exciting. And here's a number we really haven't focused on, I think, in an earnings script, and I don't even think we hit it last time exactly. But Agentforce has processed more than 3.2 trillion tokens. So 3.2 trillion tokens through our LLM gateway so far. And we're going to start talking about that concept.

We saw that in OpenAI's recent announcement that we were in their trillion token club. And of course, we use all of the large language models. They're all great. We love all of them. We love all of our children, but they're also all just commodities, and we can have the choice of choosing whatever one we want, whether it's OpenAI or Gemini or Anthropic or there's other open source ones. They're all very good at this point. So we can swap them in and out. The lowest cost one is the best one for us, making us basically the top user of these foundation models. And that point that we did 3.2 trillion tokens, let Bilbo Baggins know that we've got adoption and usage happening here with this large language model gateway. That was just a cube out to J.R.R. Tolkien himself. But that's the end of the jokes for the call.

In October alone, token usage was nearly 540 billion, up 25% month-over-month. And I just don't think any other enterprise software company has stats quite like this. This isn't your Clippy. This is not your kind of a good AI demo. This is real enterprise adoption of agentic AI and capability at scale globally.

And those numbers are going to keep growing as customers put Agentforce to work across their business, but not every task or step in a workflow needs to call the LLM. We call that determinism. And determinism is really important because for those of us who grew up in software, we used to call it if-then statements, but now we call it determinism.

But determinism is that, "Hey, if I need to do this, go to the LLM, but if I probably don't need to go to the LLM, just do that." So that is going to even reduce our costs further and not hit the LLM as much as we do. And that's why we built hybrid reasoning and agent script, and our AI teams are just crushing it on that. And we're giving customers the best of both worlds, combining LLM-driven reasoning and deterministic precision.

We had strong performance across Agentforce Service, Agentforce Sales and Slack. And those 3 apps are just a powerful combination for test us at Salesforce because we use those every single day. We live on them. It is really the hat trick for Salesforce with large customers to say, let us show you what we're doing in service, let us show you what we're doing in sales. Let us show you what we're doing in Slack. And it's a wow experience right now. It's only going to get better.

And in fact, if we included the full contribution of Agentforce just in service, we used to call it Service Cloud, now we call it Agentforce Service, but you look at Agentforce Service, we would show an additional point of growth in Q3. Now Mike likes to carve off the agent thing, revenue. He wants to have it in his own line, blah, blah, blah. It's a huge argument between me and Mike.

And the reality is, look, you're not going to have Agentforce Service or Agentforce Sales without the AI. So it's just moving. And Slack is now where it's coming all together, and that is this incredible conversational interface for every app, every agent, every workflow. I'm going to get to a really cool point in a second.

And when we release this new Slackbot, you got to see it. So you've all got friends who are Salesforce employees, take them aside and have them show you Slackbot. And just do whatever query you want and say, "Hey, I'm talking to this customer, I'm talking to that, tell me this," and you are going to see some incredible things, how it has the ability to search across Salesforce and build agents and create things and do this incredible work on your behalf.

Now I'll tell you -- and I'll just tell you that for me, Slackbot is like chatting with just one of our Ohana that knows everything about Salesforce. So it's pretty awesome. But nearly 90% now of all of the Forbes top 50 AI companies are using Salesforce. Let's just think about that for a second. 90% of all the Forbes top 50 AI companies, those are the Anthropics and the OpenAIs and blah, blah, blah companies, okay, that is -- or Cognition, Cursor, Figure AI, okay? They all average about 4 clouds each already. And 80% of them are using Slack to run their business.

So if you're with those companies, say, "Hey, show me how you're using Slack." They may not have Slackbot yet because we've only turned it on for a small number of customers who are about to hit the switch and everybody is going to see this employee agent power. So most people have seen the customer agent power. Now they're going to see the employee agent power. And they're going to see how it's built on Agentforce, how it's built on the apps and how it's built on the data.

Now with all these companies, we're really partnering with them so we can really leverage the best of what they're building, the frontier models, the agents, and even Srini is using the coding agents now.

And look, you've heard me say this over the last few years. And we kind of -- Miguel is going to come to this point, but we all know the speed of innovation in the last 3 years has far outseeded the speed of customer adoption and customers have been racing to catch up to what we've been doing. But we do see that changing. And we saw that at Dreamforce, and I know all of you saw that also that customers are really saying, "Yes, I'm going to use this now. I'm going to do this. I'm going to put in my customer agents. I'm going to put my employee agents. I'm going to get my omnichannel supervisor. I'm going to harmonize my data. I'm going to federate my data. I'm going to upgrade my apps." And customers in production with Agentforce have jumped now 70% quarter-over-quarter. So customers in production with Agentforce jumped 70% quarter-over-quarter. That's the stats that we're looking for.

Great companies like Uber, like Conagra, like [ LY ], like Williams-Sonoma, like all these great companies that we've been talking about. And the consumption flywheel is gaining traction. In the quarter, more than 50% of new Agentforce bookings as well as 50% of Data 360 bookings came from existing customers expanding their investment, which was awesome and really showed adoption. And we are very focused on adoption more than ever before, especially in Agentforce. Data 360 is the foundation for every Agentforce deployment, and it's accelerating.

In Q3, Data 360 -- the product formerly known as Data Cloud. In Q3, Data 360 ingested 32 trillion records, 32 trillion records, up 119% year-over-year, and that includes $15 trillion through 0 copy data integration, up 341% year-over-year. So Dentsu, Moody's, KPMG, Ferguson, Zoom and dozens more invested in Data 360 in the quarter. And I couldn't be more excited about completing our acquisition of Informatica.

It's 3 months ahead of schedule as we like it here at Salesforce. We like things ahead of schedule, and we like them under budget. And I'll tell you, Amit, I know all of you know Amit, his team are great. We're thrilled to have them. And when we were doing the due diligence on the company, we saw a lot of things in the labs that we're looking forward to bring into the market because, look, that data layer, and I haven't done the math exactly, but I think if you do some of the math, I think it's about a $10 billion business for us next year now.

When you look at Data 360 plus MuleSoft plus Informatica and Mike has got his pencil out trying to figure out if I'm right, but I think I am. When you look at a $10 billion business, that's the first layer. That's Data. So Informatica with Data 360, MuleSoft, I mean, that is taking everything to this new level. And when you get into the world of harmonization, integration, federation and then you're trying to deliver to the AI, the intelligence, the accuracy, the reliability to wipe out the hallucinations, delivering the AI context.

Now we're seeing momentum across multiple sectors. We had incredible wins this quarter. Miguel is going to talk to them about CVS Health and Telecom Argentina, TD Bank and the IRS, somebody who's going to be getting a big check from all of us, they're now on Agentforce. So your IRS agents are Agentforce agents and ENGIE and so many more are becoming agentic enterprises.

And Costco, we love Costco. It's -- well, we love all of our retailer friends equally, they're all of our children. But we do love that Costco warehouse experience, and it's a great expansion for us in the quarter. We're driving AI and digitization across everything they do for their members. We're doing some incredible things there with Google. And we worked with Javier, if you don't know Javier, probably one of the top, I don't know, 5, 1, 2, I mean, best CIOs I've ever worked with in the whole industry. Was it Coke, was at P&G? Was it Mondelez, now somehow Costco got them. I still don't know how Costco got Javier, but congratulations to Costco. So many times, having great results there.

So really excited to see these customers, especially these big customers. And of course, we know General Motors. We love Mary, amazing, have one of her new Escalade IQ. She's tired of me telling her how much I love it. Expanding Salesforce across the automotive cloud, Data 360 MuleSoft, Agentforce Sales, Agentforce Service, but really cool Agentforce tossed their other collaborative product. We won't talk -- tell you what it is, but you probably know the name. And they're now using Slack.

So Mary, we're thrilled that you're doing that. We love working with you. You're an incredible CEO, and you're showing the world how to turn an iconic company into an agentic enterprise, great products and great systems. And with Agentforce, Mary is speeding up case resolution call centers. Slack is now the company's primary communications hub, scaling to 96,000 employees in just 9 months.

Last month, we launched Agentforce IT Service or Agentforce ITSM or you know that, what company that we're targeting. We never really went after this before. And then all of a sudden, we realized we have the top service product in the world, and then we've got the top field service product in the world. And customers want this kind of Trinity from us that includes IT service. And for whatever reason, because we had certain people in our company, we won't go into the names who didn't want to build it and building that database that drives it.

Well, already, we're selling product and really doing a phenomenal job there. The former CEO of AI, [indiscernible] is running this thing and PenFed went live with ITSM with agents for IT service, and we've got all kinds of customers who've bought products from these competitors, never deployed them or don't like these guys.

Well, guess what, we are going to deliver some incredible capabilities. And we think that -- well, when you look at PenFed, I think they went live with agents for IT service as well as member service and collections. They're projecting a 30% reduction in operational expenses and $2 million in savings with this product is killer.

So tell your friends who need ITSM, they can get it now from Salesforce. And we're seeing incredible momentum also. And here's another competitive situation in Life Sciences Cloud. And with Life Sciences Cloud, with new bookings tripling year-over-year, always been a strong vertical for us, but we have this partner who decided to become our competitor, Veeva, and we're taking market share from Veeva.

They even had to talk about it in their earnings call that they lost all these deals to us, but they have not seen the losses yet that are coming, highlighted by a notable new win at Haleon this quarter. But just in the past few months, more than 120 industry leaders have selected Life Sciences Cloud. I was talking to the CEO of one of the top 5 Life Sciences companies just yesterday. It's a good friend of mine and going to Life Sciences Cloud, all led, by the way, with Pfizer and Albert, who decided to be the first one and so grateful to him. And it's a great product. It includes 5 of the top 20 pharma companies already, but you're going to see them all use Life Sciences Cloud. And most recently, Novartis has gone Salesforce Life Sciences Cloud, and I don't know, all of Takeda, all of them are going to go.

And our Public Sector Solutions ARR also grew 50% year-over-year in Q3, really cool products. I was just in Washington, D.C. last week. I mentioned the IRS. I was with the Treasury Secretary. I was with a number of the Cabinet Secretary.

All of them are rebuilding, what they're doing, reautomating, and we want to help all of them, and I'm inspired to see some of the largest and most impactful government agencies running their businesses and their critical workflows and their agents and their data on Salesforce, including the Air Force Army, Dan Driscoll, we're really proud to work with Dan and the Army and just told me -- came in and delivered his recruiting goals 9 months early using Agentforce Sales and Department of Agriculture, of course, that we run the whole Veterans Affairs. We have 120 apps there now. And it used to be a huge problem with Veterans Affairs for the whole country, and veterans were not getting the service and support they needed, and we cleaned that up for them.

And as I mentioned, also the IRS, but for everyone, we're in there, doing our best, and we're delivering at very reasonable cost and on budget. And we're not -- we're really excited to be working with the government and helping them to become agentic enterprises. And we're really excited to work with the IRS. I just want to say the office of the Chief Counsel has automated up to 98% of their manual activities, decreasing the time to fully open a tax court case from 10 days to 30 minutes, another division saving an estimated 500,000 minutes a year, retiring multiple legacy systems. And now Agentforce with IRS is going to be able to further optimize, automate, accelerate business process across the entire agency. And I just want to congratulate Secretary Bessent for his tremendous leadership and what he's done in transforming the IRS and also all of the treasury.

This week, we launched the U.K.'s first AI police officer. We work with multiple police departments to roll out Bobby. Everybody loves Bobby. It's the Agentforce Service agent that is the public's first point of contact for nonemergency calls and Bobby autonomously provides instant responses on more than 90 topics and police departments have already seen a 20% reduction in nonemergency demand, and they are just getting started. And this is what real enterprise adoption looks like.

No other company is delivering agents of this scale. And when you look at what others in our space are doing, the difference is clear. We're delivering this capability to a global customer base, more than 150,000 Salesforce customers and 1 million companies are now on Slack, now have the immediate opportunity to work side-by-side with agents and Agentforce and the apps are already using every day to become elevated, and that's why we're uniquely positioned for this new area. We have the strategy, the platform, the global scale.

And I would say also our core values, very much trust, customer success, equality and sustainability remain very much intact. I also want to thank all of our incredible Ohana for everything they've done during the quarter to make this quarter so successful, make Dreamforce so successful and all the world tours that are happening and so many great customer stories, but I especially want to thank all of our Ohana who have done 10 million volunteer hours to support the communities where they live and work, is we are so grateful to them.

And now I'd like to throw it over to Robin.

Robin Washington
President, Chief Operating & Financial Officer and Director

Thank you, Marc, and good afternoon, everyone. It was great to see many of you at my first Dreamforce's COFO, which was unforgettable. The energy was incredible, as Marc just talked about, and carried through the quarter, as you can see from our bookings momentum. We're excited to see our customers' transformation to the agentic enterprise accelerate, driven by Growth 360 playbook, including multi-cloud, pricing and packaging, our balanced portfolio and continued innovation.

I just want to share a few key data points with you. More than 70% of our top 100 wins included 5 or more clouds. In pricing and packaging, new bookings for Agentforce One Edition and A4X or as we call it, Agentforce for Apps, our most premium SKU doubled quarter-over-quarter.

Our consumption flywheel is spinning. Agentforce accounts and production increased 70% quarter-over-quarter and more than 50% of Agentforce bookings came from existing customers refilling the tanks. Agentforce and Data 360 ARR was up 114% year-over-year. This is inclusive of Agentforce ARR, which is up 330% year-over-year. Clearly, we have the winning formula here.

So let's turn to the results of the quarter. Revenue in the third quarter was $10.26 billion, up 9% year-over-year in nominal and 8% in constant currency, driven by the trifecta of Agentforce, Data 360 and Agentforce Sales and Service performance. This was partially offset by a faster-than-anticipated mix shift to cloud for Tableau and on-prem revenue timing in Tableau and MuleSoft.

As we've shared with you before, the on-prem portion of MuleSoft and Tableau revenue is recognized in period, which creates less predictability revenue quarter-over-quarter. Subscription and support revenue grew 10% year-over-year in nominal and 9% in constant currency. Q3 revenue attrition ended the quarter at approximately 8%, in line with recent trends. We delivered another quarter of profitable growth with Q3 non-GAAP operating margin up 240 basis points and GAAP operating margin up 130 basis points.

The strong performance this quarter was driven in part by timing of expenses and a bad debt expense adjustment based on our strong collection performance. Current remaining performance obligation, or cRPO, ended Q3 at $29.4 billion, up approximately 11% year-over-year in nominal and constant currency, inclusive of a $200 million foreign exchange tailwind. This better-than-expected performance was driven by strong bookings and a modest benefit from early renewals and the timing of on-prem revenue.

And I'm pleased to share that for the first time since fiscal year 2022, net new AOV growth outpaced AOV growth. From a geographic perspective, we saw strong business growth in North America and EMEA, led by France and the U.K., while Asia Pacific was more constrained, particularly in Australia and India. From a segment perspective, we continue to see strong performance in our small and mid-market business and enterprise growth accelerated this past quarter.

From an industry perspective, business services and consultancy, health care and life sciences and retail and consumer goods performed well, while comms and media and manufacturing, automotive and energy were more measured. As committed, I wanted to quickly update you on the progress we made on our 3 strategic priorities. First, customer success. Repeating what Marc said, our top priority is accelerating Agentforce and Data 360 adoption. We are relentlessly reallocating our resources to high-growth areas, and it's paying off.

Q3 was one of our biggest pipeline generation quarters ever and customers leveraging our forward-deployed engineers are seeing 33% faster deployment times. Second, operational excellence. As Customer Zero, our SDR agent, has worked hundreds of thousands of leads, generating tens of millions in incremental pipeline. We see that same velocity with Agentforce on help.salesforce.com, which passed 2 million conversations this quarter. It took 9 months to reach the first million and just half that time to double it, another clear example of our internal consumption flywheel taking off.

The third area I want to cover is responsible capital allocation. Informatica enhances our trusted data foundation, and it will be accretive within 12 months. We also returned more than $4 billion to shareholders in Q3. We continue to see a meaningful opportunity to invest in ourselves, and we are on track for a 50% step-up in share repurchases in the second half of this fiscal year.

Turning to guidance. I want to frame our outlook, inclusive of Informatica. To help you model this clearly, where relevant, I'll give our organic performance, layer in the acquisition impact and then provide the consolidated figures for Q4 and fiscal year '26. Starting with subscription and support revenue. We are reiterating our fiscal year '26 organic subscription and support growth guidance of approximately 9% year-over-year in constant currency.

This is fueled by continued momentum in Agentforce and Data 360, partially offset by weaknesses in marketing and commerce and the on-prem dynamic for MuleSoft and Tableau. Informatica will contribute approximately 80 basis points of additional growth, resulting in total subscription and support growth of slightly under 10% year-over-year in constant currency.

Turning to total revenue. We are narrowing our fiscal year '26 revenue guidance on an organic basis to $41.15 billion to $41.25 billion, growth of approximately 9% in nominal and 8% in constant currency. This is attributed to a $25 million FX headwind since last quarter and the on-prem dynamic for Tableau and MuleSoft. We anticipate a contribution of approximately 80 basis points from Informatica, resulting in fiscal year '26 revenue of $41.45 billion to $41.55 billion or approximately 9% to 10% in nominal and approximately 9% in constant currency.

Before I turn to profitability, I want to highlight that with our current trajectory of net new AOV growth, we project to finish fiscal year '26 with half 2 net new AOV growth ahead of half 2 AOV growth.

Turning to margin. As a result of the close timing of Informatica, we are maintaining our non-GAAP operating margin guidance at 34.1% and adjusting our GAAP operating margin to 20.3%. We are raising our annual guidance on operating cash flow growth to approximately 13% to 14% growth as a result of our strong Q3 bookings performance. We expect capital expenditures to remain slightly below 2% of revenue, resulting in free cash flow growth of approximately 13% to 14%.

Organic cRPO growth for Q4 is expected to be approximately 11% year-over-year in nominal and 9% year-over-year in constant currency. As a reminder, we are lapping our acquisition of Own in Q4 FY '25, which represents slightly under a point of impact. Inclusive of Informatica, we expect cRPO growth of approximately 15% year-over-year in nominal, including a $500 million FX tailwind, resulting in approximately 13% constant currency growth.

Consistent with our Investor Day outlook, we remain on track to reaccelerate revenue in 12 to 18 months. In closing, our momentum is building, fueled by Agentforce. We are executing against our FY '30 framework and investing with discipline, positioning us incredibly well for the future.

Finally, a big thank you to all our employees for their dedication and hard work delivering a successful Q3.

I'll turn it back to you, Mike.

Michael Spencer
Executive Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, Robin. And with that, we're going to move to the Q&A portion of our call. Operator, can we please move to the first question?