Crocs, Inc. (CROX) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 30, 2025 8:30 AM EDT

Company Participants

Erinn Murphy - Senior VP of Investor Relations & Corporate Strategy
Andrew Rees - CEO, Director & Interim President for HEYDUDE Brand
Patraic Reagan - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Jonathan Komp - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Christopher Nardone - BofA Securities, Research Division
Tom Nikic - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Adrienne Yih-Tennant - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Peter McGoldrick - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Rakesh Patel - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brooke Roach - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Aubrey Tianello - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Anna Andreeva - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to the Crocs, Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Erinn Murphy, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Strategy. Please go ahead.

Erinn Murphy
Senior VP of Investor Relations & Corporate Strategy

Good morning, and thank you for joining us to discuss Crocs Inc. third quarter results. With me today are Andrew Rees, Chief Executive Officer; and Patraic Reagan, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Following their prepared remarks, we will open the call for your questions, which we ask that you limit to one per caller.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that some of the information provided on this call is forward-looking and accordingly, is subject to the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially. Please refer to our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC for more information on these risks and uncertainties. Certain financial metrics that we refer to as adjusted or non-GAAP are non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of these amounts to their GAAP counterparts is contained in the press release we issued earlier this morning. All revenue growth rates will be cited on a constant currency basis unless otherwise stated.

At this time, I'll turn the call over to Andrew Rees, Crocs, Inc. Chief Executive Officer.

Andrew Rees
CEO, Director & Interim President for HEYDUDE Brand

Thank you, Erinn, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Before we discuss the quarter, I would like to start by welcoming our Chief Financial Officer, Patraic Reagan, to his first Crocs Inc. earnings call. Our third quarter performance was driven by managing both of our brands in a disciplined fashion, streamlining our cost structure and controlling our inventory in the marketplace. We delivered very strong profitability and cash flow, which enabled us to repurchase 2.4 million of our outstanding shares and pay down $63 million of debt. These are fundamental levers of our value creation model.

While our results came in ahead of our expectations, I acknowledge that this performance is not up to the standards that we expect for ourselves. We are working to regain momentum in the marketplace, and our teams have already begun executing against our strategies. With this in mind, I would like to begin the call today by elaborating on the progress we have made on our strategic pillars for both Crocs and HEYDUDE and the speed at which we are driving further simplicity and cost reductions across our enterprise. Patraic will then provide a more detailed overview of our financial results and outlook.

Starting with the Crocs Brand. As we communicated last quarter, we elected to take 2 strategic actions to protect the long-term brand health. First, we pulled back on the breadth and depth of promotional activity across our digital channels in North America. This promotional pullback has had the greatest impact on our Classic Clog business as we work harder to protect our icon. Second, we continue to reduce receipts into the wholesale channel to better match supply to demand and ultimately drive a demand-led model. While these actions are impacting near-term sales, we expect them to enable a foundation for future growth.

Further, we have seen a net positive benefit to our gross profit dollars in North America as a result of our pullback on promotions. Our return to growth in North America will be based on greater product innovation, diversification within clogs, growth within sandals and new categories. We are carefully managing our Classic Clog franchise with the desired outcome of creating clearer segmentation while leaning into innovation within new clog and sandal introductions. While improving the trajectory of North America is a top priority, we are making good progress against our 5 strategic pillars for the Crocs Brand. First, we will continue to drive brand relevance through clog iterations and innovation. During the quarter, we introduced the crafted clog starting at $60. This new franchise incorporates a non-molded comfortable upper with a Jibbitable back strap as we put personalization in the forefront of our design.

We featured Lola Tung, the actress of hit show, The Summer I Turned Pretty, to bring this to market. Following our initial sell-up on TikTok Shop, we have seen strong consumer response in all channels. We're also focused on scaling existing clog franchises, including Croc Brand and Echo. Within the Echo franchise, we launched the Echo RO during the quarter and saw immediate success. Looking to 2026, we will expand our crafted franchise with new materializations, launch a new and improved Croc Brand, which is already an established fan favorite in our portfolio and introduce Echo 2.0 clog. We expect product diversification within our clog pillar to enable greater channel segmentation and drive long-term growth in our clog franchise. Second, we're focused on diversifying outside of clogs through new category expansion.

Our sandals pillar outperformed the broader portfolio and took market share in this quarter with strong full price performance across our style franchise, including Brooklyn, Getaway and Miami. Retailers have continued to chase these key styles beyond the back-to-school season. As we look into 2026, these franchises paired with the reintroduction of an updated personalizable 2-strap sandal underscores our opportunity to gain further market share in this category. We are also excited with the response we have received around our new cozy franchise, the Unfurgettable, which we launched in partnership with actress Millie Bobby Brown.

This style has already seen a very positive response on TikTok, resonating particularly well with the Gen Z female consumer. The Unfurgettable, along with broader newness in our cozy assortment has catalyzed our line business so far this season. Third, we will fuel consumer engagement with disruptive digital and social marketing. During the quarter, we launched a multiyear agreement with the NFL, which featured our classic and classic line clogs as well as Jibbitz. This release exceeded our expectations with particularly strong sell-through across the board, leading to multiple restocks. Other highlights in the quarter included a disruptive launch with Krispy Kreme and our newest release on Roblox. In the quarter, we launched a Pan-Asian Monsoon campaign, "Your Crocs, Your Splash." This campaign positions a Classic Clog as the footwear of choice for the rainy season and stars 2 prominent actors from South Korea and India.

The campaign video generated approximately 575 million views across Instagram and YouTube. These partnerships are prime examples of how our brand excites, inspires and connects with a wide range of consumers across the globe. Fourth, we'll continue to create compelling consumer experiences across distribution. Year-to-date, we've accelerated our first-mover advantage in social commerce. We remain the #1 footwear brand on TikTok Shop in the U.S. and the growing adoption of this platform is gaining momentum with younger consumers. This month, we created further disruption in the market by live streaming both of our brands on TikTok Shop and our own dot-com throughout the month of October. Through this initiative, we have seen an uptick in our followers and influx of new consumers.

In fact, Crocs was the first fashion brand to live stream 24/7 for an entire month across TikTok and dot-com. We're continuing to expand this partnership and have launched TikTok Shop in the U.K., Germany and Brazil. Fifth, we see significant opportunity to capture greater share across our international markets, many of which are still in their infancy of growth. In the third quarter, we saw broad-based strength across our Tier 1 international markets. China delivered revenue growth across all channels and was up mid-20% to prior year, outperforming the overall market handily. During the quarter, we launched a unique POP MART, China's SKULLPANDA collaboration, which included a Douyin live stream on POP MART'S page and was a smash hit in China. In addition to China, we saw strong growth in Japan and across all of our key markets in Western Europe.

In summary, our priorities are clear: driving product innovation in clogs and sandals, staying agile and consumer-focused while sharpening segmentation and accelerating international growth where penetration opportunities remain. Turning now to HEYDUDE. We delivered third quarter results that came in ahead of expectations. We are encouraged by the progress we're making in stabilizing the brand in North America to return to profitable growth. Let me share more about the actions we have taken and what gives me confidence in our ability to reestablish brand growth. First, we're focused on building a community. Our recently refreshed consumer insights work underscores that we have a passionate group of brand fans, ones that identify as laid-back and no-fuss, but clearly seek the comfortable and lightweight products we have to offer.

We launched our HEYDUDE Country campaign in June, which plays to our brand's affinities, including music, travel and pre and post sport and is centered around this laid-back, no-fuss consumer. Relatedly, we are encouraged to see the brands return to the top 10 preferred footwear brands among males in the Piper Sandler Taking Stock With Teens survey this fall. Second, our product direction is clear. We're building the core and thoughtfully adding more. Within our Wally and Wendy franchise, we launched the Stretch Sox and its performance has already surpassed legacy socks on a like-for-like basis. In 2026, we will launch Stretch Jersey, a sweatshirt for your feet, and retailer response to this product has been very strong as it appeals to both her and him.

Outside of the core, we are seeing continued traction of our Paul franchise, which plays into the dress casual sneaker space, and we're solidly building on our slipper success again this holiday. Earlier this month, we launched our third collaboration with Jelly Roll, featuring the fan favorite Bradley Boot in 2 colorways. The initial launch on TikTok Shop drove the largest single day for HEYDUDE on the platform to date. We see this collab as serving to halo, our broader boot offering as we move into holiday. Third, we're focused on continuing to clean up channel inventory in the North America marketplace. During the third quarter, we accelerated returns and markdown allowances to our retailers to improve inventory health while elevating our brand presentation at wholesale. The nature of these cleanup actions has had an impact on revenue in the third quarter through vendor returns, and we're planning for continued markdown support in the fourth quarter.

These actions have been effective in cleaning up the channel and establishing a foundation for future growth. On an enterprise basis, we're working to quickly rightsize our cost base. As we shared on our last call, we've already taken action on $50 million of gross cost savings this year and have since identified another $100 million of gross cost savings across the business to simplify the organization. While Patraic will go into more detail shortly, we expect these cost savings to generate greater flexibility across the P&L, enabling future investment to drive growth for our brands.

At this time, I will turn the call over to Patraic to provide more detail around our third quarter financial performance and our fourth quarter outlook.

Patraic Reagan
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. Before I review the quarter, I'd like to say how grateful and excited I am to have the opportunity to serve as Chief Financial Officer of Crocs, Inc. This is a company I've long admired professionally and as a consumer, one whose profitable growth has been built on an enduring cultural icon. For Crocs and HEYDUDE, I see strong potential both domestically and globally, and I look forward to working with our talented teams across the world to further drive the company's strategic and financial goals.

Now let's get into our results. Our third quarter revenue of approximately $1 billion were down 7% to prior year. Crocs Brand revenue of $836 million was down 3% to prior year, with wholesale down 8% and DTC up 1%. North American revenues were down 9% to last year as we continue to intentionally pull back on discounting within our digital channels during the quarter. This was partially offset by strong digital marketplace performance. These actions, in part resulted in DTC down 8%, while wholesale was down 11%. International revenue was up 4% to prior year, driven by direct-to-consumer, which was up 23%. DTC performance continues to reflect broad-based strength across both digital and retail. International wholesale was down 7% based on timing shifts we communicated last quarter.

Within our Tier 1 international markets, we saw broad-based strength led by China and Japan, while Western Europe also drove strong results across the U.K., Germany and France. Now turning to HEYDUDE brand. Revenue of $160 million was down 22% to prior year, but ahead of our expectations. DTC was better than planned, down 1% to prior year. This was driven by the addition of new retail stores and strong digital marketplace performance, most notably on TikTok Shop, offset by the planned reduction in performance marketing spend as we work to enhance profitability, albeit with negative revenue impacts. Wholesale was down 39%, reflecting the previously communicated wholesale cleanup actions we took in the quarter. As a result of these actions, we started to see an improvement in wholesale sellouts, which are now in line with our inventory levels. This is an important data point as we position HEYDUDE for a return to growth.

Moving back to Crocs Inc. Enterprise adjusted gross margin of 58.5% was down 110 basis points to prior year, including a 230 basis point headwind from tariffs. The tariff impact in the quarter was 60 basis points higher than we previously anticipated based on higher receipts and country mix. Excluding tariffs, our adjusted gross margin would have been up, reflecting lower negotiated product costs, higher ASPs for both brands and brand mix. Crocs brand adjusted gross margin of 61.8% was down 70 basis points to prior year, driven by tariff headwinds. HEYDUDE brand adjusted gross margin of 42.3% was down 560 basis points to prior year, driven by tariff headwinds and fixed cost to leverage, which was partially offset by higher ASPs.

Importantly, the third quarter represents the ninth consecutive quarter of ASP increases for HEYDUDE. Adjusted SG&A rate was 37.7%, up 350 basis points compared to prior year. Adjusted SG&A dollars increased 3% to prior year, a notable improvement from the 15% SG&A increase in the first half of the year. This was driven by investments in talent, DTC and marketing, significantly offset by cost savings under the $50 million initiative that we announced earlier this year. Taken together, adjusted operating margin of 20.8% came in ahead of our guidance of 18% to 19%, but was down 460 basis points compared to prior year. Adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.92 was down 19% to last year, and our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 16.9%.

Moving on to inventory. At the end of Q3, our inventory balance was $397 million, up 8% to prior year, including the impact of higher tariffs and product mix. Importantly, inventory units were down low single digits to prior year. Our enterprise inventory turns were above our goal of 4x on an annualized basis as we proactively managed our inventory receipts. Our liquidity position remains strong, comprised of $154 million of cash and cash equivalents and nearly $850 million of borrowing capacity on our revolver. Our strong profitability and free cash flow enables us to return value to shareholders through buybacks and debt paydown.

During the quarter, we repurchased 2.4 million shares of our common stock for a total of $203 million at an average cost of approximately $83 per share. This represented approximately 4% of our float. Year-to-date, we have repurchased 4.3 million shares of our common stock for a total of approximately $400 million. We ended the quarter with $927 million remaining on our buyback authorization. Total borrowings at quarter end of $1.3 billion included the paydown of $63 million of debt during the third quarter. Our net leverage ended the quarter at the lower end of our targeted range of 1 to 1.5x.

Now turning to our fourth quarter outlook. For Q4, we expect revenues to be down approximately 8% in currency rates as of October 27. Within this, we expect the Crocs brand to be down approximately 3% with acceleration in our international business from a mid-single digit in Q3 to a low double-digit rate in Q4. North America revenue is expected to be down low double digits to prior year, reflecting a wider range of outcomes, including our view of a choiceful consumer, a highly competitive holiday season and lower inventory receipts in the wholesale channel. For HEYDUDE, we expect revenue to be down in the mid-20s range, including the impact of reducing performance marketing spend in the DTC channel and the investments we are making in wholesale marketplace cleanup.

We expect adjusted operating margin to be approximately 15.5%. This excludes approximately $10 million related to cost reduction initiatives we referenced earlier. Our adjusted operating margin embeds gross margins down approximately 300 basis points, driven almost entirely by tariff headwinds. In addition, our adjusted SG&A dollars are expected to be below that of prior year as we continue to see the positive impact of our cost savings. Adjusted diluted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $1.82 to $1.92. For the year, our capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $70 million to $75 million. While it is too early to provide 2026 guidance, I do want to provide more context on how we are thinking about further cost savings.

As Andrew mentioned, we are already benefiting from the previously actioned $50 million of gross cost savings in 2025. In addition, we have identified $100 million of incremental gross cost savings that we expect to benefit 2026. These savings include simplifying our organizational structure, deliberately reducing spend in noncritical areas and further optimizing our supply chain. It is too premature to share how much of these savings we will choose to flow to the bottom line. However, we are committed to managing our adjusted SG&A base to ensure we drive operating leverage in 2026 while creating greater flexibility across the P&L.

To conclude, we have already taken several strategic and tactical actions to improve the momentum of our brands. We have also taken steps to provide flexibility in our cost structure, and we are intently focused on driving consistent profitable growth in the future. At this time, we will now turn the call back over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer portion of our call.