Carpenter Technology Corporation (CRS) Q2 2026 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

John Huyette - VP of Corporate Development & Investor Relations
Tony Thene - CEO & Chairman of the Board
Timothy Lain - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Gautam Khanna - TD Cowen, Research Division
Scott Deuschle - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Joshua Sullivan - JonesTrading Institutional Services, LLC, Research Division
Bennett Moore - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Andre Madrid - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Philip Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is [ Desiree ], and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Carpenter Technology's Second Quarter Fiscal Year Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to John Huyette. You may begin.

John Huyette
VP of Corporate Development & Investor Relations

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Carpenter Technology Earnings Conference Call for the fiscal 2026 Second Quarter ended December 31, 2025. This call is also being broadcast over the Internet, along with presentation slides. For those of you listening by phone, you may experience a time delay in slide movement. Speakers on the call today are Tony Thene, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Tim Lain, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Statements made by management during this earnings presentation that are forward-looking statements are based on current expectations.

Risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements can be found in Carpenter Technology's most recent SEC filings, including the company's report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2025, Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2025, and the exhibits attached to those filings. Please also note that in the following discussion, unless otherwise noted, when [ management ] discuss the sales or revenue, that reference excludes surcharge. When referring to operating margins, that is based on adjusted operating income, excluding special items and sales, excluding surcharge. I will now turn the call over to Tony.

Tony Thene
CEO & Chairman of the Board

Thank you, John, and good morning to everyone. I will begin on Slide 4 with a review of our safety performance. We ended the second quarter of fiscal year 2026 with a total case incident rate of 1.4. We saw improvement over the last quarter. And as a result of the actions in this area, I expect to see continued progress going forward. As always, we remain committed to our ultimate goal, a zero injury workplace.

Let's turn to Slide 5 for an overview of our second quarter performance. The second quarter performance continued our earnings momentum and sets us up for a strong second half to fiscal year 2026. Let me highlight the 4 major takeaways for you. One, record earnings. In the second quarter, we generated $155 million in operating income, exceeding our previous record set in the prior quarter. And it is a 31% increase over our second quarter of fiscal year 2025, another meaningful step up year-over-year. Our consistent earnings growth continues to be the result of our solid execution, strong market position and unique capacity and capabilities.

Two, expanding operating margins. The SAO segment continued to expand margins, reaching an adjusted operating margin of 33.1% in the quarter. This margin compares to 28.3% a year ago and 32% in the prior quarter. Keep in mind that there are lots of factors that impact what our operating margins can be in any given quarter, most notably the mix of our products. So going forward, we may see some quarters that are flat or slightly lower, but the overall trajectory is anticipated to continue upwards. With that being said, our current outlook calls for increasing SAO margins over the next 2 quarters of fiscal year 2026.

As in the past, the positive trend will continue to be driven by increased productivity, product mix optimization and pricing actions. As a result of the expanding margins, the SAO segment recorded $174.6 million in operating income, an increase of 29% year-over-year and another all-time record for the segment? Three, strengthening market demand, especially in the aerospace and defense end-use market as we continue to see strengthening demand signals in terms of OEM production and order intake rates? Our customers are keenly aware of these demand signals and are positioning themselves accordingly.

In the quarter, bookings for the aerospace and defense end-use market increased 8% sequentially. However, it is important to note that defense submarket orders were down materially in the quarter due to the government shutdown and uncertainty in terms of the defense budget. Most importantly, commercial aerospace bookings were up 23% sequentially. This is the fourth consecutive quarter of sequential order intake increases for the aerospace and defense end-use market. Seeing such strong bookings in a quarter that's usually quieter due to the holidays is a good indication of the accelerating demand for our materials. And four, pricing continues to be a tailwind.

Given the strong demand outlook, our customers continue to be focused on securing their supply and our pricing continues to increase. As evidence of this, we completed 3 additional long-term agreements with aerospace customers with significant price increases during the quarter. These long-term agreements represent good value for us and our customers as they look to secure their material needs going forward.

Let's turn to Slide 6 and have a closer look at second quarter sales and market dynamics. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2026, our total sales, excluding raw material surcharge, were up 8% over the second quarter of fiscal year 2025 and down 2% sequentially. Net sales were as we expected and the result of multiple factors, including available operating days and customer closure schedules, items which we see at every calendar year-end and which I noted in last quarter's earnings call. As we enter our third quarter, these factors are not in play, and we expect a sequential increase in net sales.

Let me briefly review some of the key markets, starting with aerospace and defense. Sales in the aerospace and defense end-use market were down 1% sequentially and up 15% year-over-year. While down modestly on a sequential basis, the aerospace and defense end-use market net sales represented our second best quarter on record, and activity with our aerospace and defense customers continues to increase. I will mention 2 important data points from the aerospace engine and structural submarkets. Order intake in the quarter for our aerospace engine materials was up 30% sequentially, signaling continued growing strength in demand. And very importantly, our aerospace structural customers are moving off the sidelines and ramping up order placement. Many of them recently placed their first large orders with us in several quarters and are already preparing the next round of orders, which they anticipate being larger and even more urgent.

Moving on to the medical end-use market. Our sales were down 7% sequentially and 22% compared to the prior year second quarter. The decrease is isolated to certain titanium products for a specific set of medical distribution customers and all within our PEP segment. Clearly, this has impacted the earnings of the much smaller PEP segment, but the impact is not material to total Carpenter Technology results and not material to our overall earnings outlook or our ability to deliver on such outlook. Outside of these distribution customers for titanium, we do see bright spots in other areas of the medical end-use market.

Sales to our orthopedic and dental submarkets remain strong, both near an all-time record. Our advanced solutions, which are ultimately used to support improved patient outcomes and are critical to trends like minimally invasive surgeries, metal sensitivities and robotics remain highly valued by our customers. Shifting to the energy end-use market. Sales were down 10% sequentially and up 19% year-over-year. As I've said many times, sales in the power generation submarket will fluctuate quarter-to-quarter due to the frequency of orders and our practice of strategically slotting them into our production process.

Power generation demand continues to accelerate, driven primarily by the immense energy needs of data centers. We remain in close coordination with the power generation customers across multiple platform types and OEMs to plan for their future material needs. Altogether, we are operating in a strengthening demand environment across the high-value end-use markets that we believe will drive meaningful growth in both the near term and long term. Now I will turn it over to Tim for the financial summary.

Timothy Lain
Senior VP & CFO

Thanks, Tony. Good morning, everyone. I'll start in the income statement summary. Starting at the top, sales excluding surcharge increased 8% year-over-year on 5% higher volume. Sequentially, sales were down 2% on 4% higher volume. The improving productivity, product mix and pricing are evident in our gross profit, which increased to $218.3 million in the current quarter, up slightly sequentially and up 23% from the same quarter last year. Selling, general and administrative or SG&A expenses were $63.1 million in the second quarter, flat sequentially and up $4.5 million from the same quarter last year. The SG&A line includes corporate costs, which were $26.2 million. This is flat sequentially and up $2.6 million from the second quarter of fiscal year 2025.

For the upcoming third quarter of fiscal year 2026, we expect corporate costs to be about $25 million. Operating income was $155.2 million in the current quarter, which is 31% higher than our second quarter of fiscal year 2025 and up slightly from our recent first quarter. As Tony mentioned earlier, this represents another record quarterly operating income result, breaking the previous record set last quarter.

Moving on to our effective tax rate, which was 19% in the current quarter. This quarter's effective tax rate was lower than anticipated, primarily due to discrete tax benefits associated with the exercise of certain equity awards in the current quarter. For the balance of the fiscal year, we expect the effective tax rate to be between 22% to 23%. For the full fiscal year 2026, the effective tax rate is expected to be on the low end of the full year guidance we previously provided of 21% to 23%. Finally, the adjusted earnings per diluted share was $2.33 for the quarter. The adjusted earnings per share excludes the impact of the debt refinancing we completed in the quarter. I'll talk about that shortly.

Now turning to more detail on each of the segments, starting with our SAO results. Net sales, excluding surcharge for the second quarter were $527.3 million. Compared to the same quarter last year, sales were up 10% on 5% higher volume, reflecting the impact of product mix optimization and pricing actions. Sequentially, sales were down 1% on 5% higher volume. We recognize there is a significant focus externally on our reported sales and volume each quarter and ultimately, the selling price per pound of our products, particularly in our SAO segment as an indicator of pricing changes.

As we've stated before, the selling price per pound in any given quarter is highly dependent on the mix of products that we ship in any one quarter. As we saw this quarter, our product mix was influenced by the planned maintenance activities and holidays. As a result, and as expected, given these dynamics, our reported net sales, excluding surcharge per pound were down slightly sequentially and up year-over-year. Most importantly, SAO's adjusted operating margin continued to increase and in fact, hit record levels, reaching 33.1% in adjusted operating margin. This marks the 16th consecutive quarter of margin expansion. As a result, SAO reported operating income of $174.6 million in the second quarter, a new all-time high for the segment.

In addition to mix and price benefits, the record performance reflects the SAO team's ability to actively manage our production schedules, increase productivity at key work centers, manage costs and execute thoughtful planned maintenance activities. Looking ahead to our third quarter of fiscal year 2026, we anticipate SAO will generate operating income in the range of $195 million to $200 million. This implies a healthy 12% to 15% increase from SAO's second quarter record results.

Now turning to Slide 10 and our PEP segment results. Net sales, excluding surcharge in the second quarter of fiscal year 2026 were $77.2 million, down 11% sequentially and down 10% from the same quarter a year ago. As Tony mentioned earlier, the decline was primarily driven by titanium sales, which were heavily impacted by lower demand from specific medical customers. As a result, PEP reported an operating income of $6.9 million in the current quarter compared with $9.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2026 and $7 million in the same quarter a year ago. The year-over-year improvement in operating margin reflects increasing sales in our additive business driven by demand as well as the cost benefits of actions we took last year to reduce structural costs in this business. We currently anticipate the PEP segment's operating income for the upcoming third quarter to be in line with the second quarter of fiscal year 2026.

Before we move to cash flow, I just wanted to pull together the pieces that make up our outlook for operating income for the third quarter of fiscal year 2026. We anticipate total operating income of $177 million to $182 million. This includes SAO at $195 million to $200 million, PEP at roughly $7 million and corporate costs of $25 million. Now turning to the next slide to talk about our cash generation and capital allocation priorities.

In the current quarter, we generated $132.2 million of cash from operating activities and spent $46.3 million on capital expenditures, which resulted in adjusted free cash flow of $85.9 million. As I mentioned last quarter, we expect capital spending will accelerate in the second half of fiscal year 2026 as construction activities related to the brownfield capacity expansion project broaden and equipment delivery and installation begins in earnest. As we look ahead, we expect to generate at least $280 million of adjusted free cash flow in fiscal year 2026. Our free cash flow generation is important as it enables us to deploy a balanced capital allocation.

As we've discussed before, our primary focus areas for capital deployment are investing cash in attractive and accretive growth projects and returning cash to shareholders. In that regard, we continue to execute against our share repurchase authorization and repurchased $32.1 million of shares in the current quarter. This brings the total to $183.1 million spent to date against the $400 million authorization that we announced in July of 2024. In addition to the buyback program, we also continue to fund a recurring and long-standing quarterly dividend. That brings us to investing in growth.

As noted, the brownfield expansion project construction activities are ongoing and rapidly progressing. The project is currently on budget and on schedule. Finally, our ability to deploy capital is also supported by our healthy liquidity and strong balance sheet. In the current quarter, we took actions to strengthen both our balance sheet and liquidity. Namely, we completed the refinancing of our long-term debt to extend the maturity of our notes to 2034 while reducing the interest rate. In addition, we amended and restated our revolving credit facility, primarily to increase our credit facility from $350 million to $500 million and extended the term to 2030.

As of the most recent quarter end, our total liquidity was $730.8 million, including $231.9 million of cash and $498.9 million of available borrowings under our credit facility. Our credit metrics remain very strong with our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio remaining well below 1x. Altogether, we believe our strong balance sheet and outlook for significant cash generation positions us well to fund continued growth and deliver significant shareholder returns. With that, I will turn the call back to Tony.

Tony Thene
CEO & Chairman of the Board

Thanks, Tim. Each quarter, important themes emerge that become the focus of attention in the investment community. As I did last quarter, I will address them in detail to make sure Carpenter Technology's position is clear. First, the ongoing discussion concerning the strength and acceleration of the aerospace demand environment with a focus on current and anticipated build rates. On last quarter's earnings call, I spent a lot of time providing details of positive momentum in the aerospace demand environment. Without repeating everything, I will just state again that the aerospace market is in the midst of one of the largest build ramps ever to meet the unprecedented demand projections. Let me provide a couple of new positive data points that have appeared over the last quarter.

Notably, Boeing achieved the milestone of building 42 737s in the month of December. On their earnings call earlier this week, Boeing reaffirmed their intention to increase build rates in calendar year 2026. And most notably, they emphasized that builds would be increasing much higher than deliveries, given that finished plane inventory has now been depleted and their intent to build some 737s ahead of delivery in 2027. While citing an expected 10% increase in deliveries, Boeing noted that build activity would have to increase much more to account for the factors I just mentioned.

In light of this, our aerospace customers continue to report increasing demand in the supply chain to support the build rate ramp. This, in turn, is accelerating confidence in the aerospace outlook across each of our submarkets. Our aerospace engine customers are full steam ahead. The engine OEMs are asking us whether the supply chain has ordered enough material to support part builds. And our direct customers are focused on getting orders placed against, in many cases, recently signed long-term agreements. Importantly, and as I mentioned previously, we continue to see meaningful sequential increases in order intake for our aerospace engine materials, up 30% sequentially.

I will also repeat my statement from earlier that our aerospace structural customers are moving off the sidelines and ramping up order placement. This is an aerospace submarket that has been lagging to others and the recent placement of their first large orders with us in several quarters is an encouraging sign of strengthening confidence in the aerospace ramp. We are also working closely with our aerospace fastener customers to ensure they get the materials needed as they are projecting big increases for calendar year 2026. Altogether, we are clearly in the midst of an acceleration of aerospace demand.

Our sophisticated customers understand the accelerating demand dynamics, and we continue to work with them to ensure they have their orders in place, so they are not last in line. Our customers also understand that nickel-based super alloys will be in short supply with only a few qualified producers globally. That point leads to the second topic to discuss, nickel-based super alloy industry supply. This can be a difficult topic to understand and to quantify as there are numerous complex nickel-based super alloys that are supplied into aerospace engines and other critical areas of the aircraft, such as landing gear, avionics and structural. Before I address supply, it is important to understand the demand projections for nickel-based super alloys into the aerospace supply chain.

As we have detailed in our investor event about a year ago, the aerospace industry is targeting build rates of 2,100-plus airplanes per year. To put that into perspective, that is at least 30% higher than the pre-COVID high calendar year 2019 when the industry was effectively sold out of nickel-based super alloys. But aerospace OEM demand is not the only area that competes for scarce nickel-based superalloys.

As the installed fleet of planes continues to grow and ages, MRO demand is projected to be at significantly higher levels going forward versus today. Defense demand is increasing rapidly, driven by the increased number of platforms and by the need of even more advanced capabilities, both of which mean higher demand for specialty materials solutions. Demand for specialty materials used in space has also been increasing, with one driver being that the number of commercial satellite launches continues to increase as the space economy grows. And lastly, power generation demand is increasing substantially. This has been widely discussed with news articles on this topic nearly weekly, and it is driven by the need for power to support the growing data center build-out as well as increasing needs from developing economies.

It's important to include the power generation demand in this discussion because in many cases, it competes for time on the same assets used to produce aerospace nickel-based superalloys. Taking into consideration increasing demand from several areas, it becomes clear that macro trends support an accelerating explosion of demand for nickel-based super alloys. Now let's address the supply of these alloys. Since the pre-COVID year of 2019, there has been no meaningful increases in overall qualified nickel-based super alloy supply other than from internal productivity improvements from the current suppliers. Since that time, Carpenter Technology has been the only company to formally announce any investment in capacity expansion in this specific area as we did recently at our February 2025 investor update.

For those who are unfamiliar, we are investing in a brownfield capacity expansion focused on primary melt, specifically a new vacuum induction melting furnace, which is a critical piece of equipment in the manufacturing process of high-purity specialty alloys. In total, this project plans to add 9,000 additional tons, roughly a 7% increase over our 2019 shipments. While this is meaningful to the financials of Carpenter Technology, it is not a meaningful increase for the industry. Remember, Carpenter Technology is 1 of 3 players participating in the high-end nickel-based alloy market, and we are only adding a modest 7% additional capacity versus our 2019 shipment levels only.

Taking into consideration the significant projected increase in aerospace OEM builds, combined with the projected demand increases for aerospace MRO, defense, space and power generation applications, our capacity increase may account for only a small single-digit percentage of the total projected supply-demand deficit. Of course, there could be other incremental capacity announcements on the horizon given the demand environment, but they too will likely be minimal in terms of their impact on closing the projected gap in supply. Keep in mind, this type of capacity is highly specialized, difficult to operate, costly and takes significant time to build, install, develop and qualify. It is this persistent supply-demand gap that is driving the current pricing environment, particularly in the nickel-based super alloy market, and we don't see that changing materially. This leads to the third topic, nickel-based super alloy pricing.

Similar to the aerospace demand environment topic, I also spent a lot of time providing details of our pricing and customer contractual arrangements on last quarter's earnings call. Again, all of that commentary still holds true. I will note again to support our view of the pricing dynamic for our materials that in the quarter, we completed negotiations on 3 long-term agreements with aerospace customers with significant price increases. It is also important to note that, in turn, our customers also benefit greatly as they are getting surety of supply of our products, which is highly valuable to them in an extraordinarily high demand environment.

Final point on this topic. We have communicated publicly many times and state again today that we believe pricing actions will continue to be a positive tailwind into the future due to the supply-demand imbalance that exists today and that is expected to intensify in the future for nickel-based superalloys. Lastly, we continue to receive questions about our confidence in our earnings guidance. As you have come to understand, our earnings guidance philosophy is very structured and well thought out. We believe in establishing challenging targets that we have line of sight to achieving with disciplined action plans in place. We have earned a reputation of achieving and exceeding our targets.

At the start of fiscal year 2026, we projected operating income for the current fiscal year of $660 million to $700 million. Given the supply-demand dynamics I just covered and the visibility we have for the second half of the fiscal year 2026, we are raising our guidance to $680 million to $700 million. This range for fiscal year 2026 represents a 30% to 33% increase over our record fiscal year 2025 earnings. As you recall, we established fiscal year 2027 guidance of $765 million to $800 million almost a year ago in February of 2025.

At that time, we stated our belief that the targets for fiscal year 2026 and 2027 were the highest earnings growth trajectory among our industry peers, and we still believe that to be true. However, let me be clear, as this aerospace market continues to accelerate, our focus is not on achieving the fiscal year 2027 guidance. The focus is on exceeding that target. As we continue to fine-tune our outlook, I would expect in the next few quarters, we will be updating the fiscal year 2027 guidance as well as adding longer-term annual guidance.

Now let's turn to the final slide to summarize this great story. Let me close as I did last quarter with why I think Carpenter Technology is a compelling story for existing and potential shareholders. Let's take a look at 3 major areas most important to shareholders. One, we have an enviable market position in the industry. We are in the midst of a significant acceleration in demand, especially in the aerospace and defense end-use market. With accelerating build rates driving higher demand for our materials, a fundamental supply-demand imbalance in nickel-based super alloys will tighten even further. Our world-class collection of unique manufacturing assets and related capabilities are difficult, if not impossible, to replicate.

Our leading capacity and capabilities are further differentiated by stringent qualifications necessary to supply advanced materials for aerospace and defense and other key end-use market applications. Two, we are committed to a balanced capital allocation approach. We have a healthy liquidity position and a strong balance sheet, combined with an impressive free cash flow generation outlook. We are focused on returning cash to shareholders via a long-standing dividend and a robust share repurchase plan. In addition, our strong performance enables us to invest in highly accretive growth projects like our recently announced brownfield expansion that accelerates earnings growth but will not materially impact the nickel-based supply-demand imbalance.

And three, we have delivered impressive financial results with a strong earnings outlook. We have just completed another record quarter of profitability, driven by significant margin expansion in our SAO segment. Our increased guidance for fiscal year 2026 implies a 30% to 33% increase over a record fiscal year 2025, and we are well on our way to achieving and even surpassing the earnings target for fiscal year 2027. I don't know of anyone in our industry who can say they have a stronger earnings outlook than Carpenter Technology. Of course, fiscal year 2027 is not expected to be our peak. We have plans and line of sight to further earnings growth beyond 2027.

In summary, we believe Carpenter Technology checks every important shareholder criteria box. We have created significant shareholder value to date, but we are only at the beginning of this growth journey. The best is still to come. As always, we remain focused on supporting our customer needs, operational execution and living our values as we drive to exceptional near-term and long-term performance. Thank you for your attention. I will now turn the call back to the operator.

