CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. (CRWD) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 2, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Andy Nowinski
George Kurtz - Co-Founder, President, CEO & Director
Burt Podbere - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Brian Essex - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Matthew Hedberg - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Gabriela Borges - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Daniel Ives - Wedbush Securities Inc., Research Division
Joseph Gallo - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Fatima Boolani - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Meta Marshall - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Patrick Edwin Colville - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Eric Heath - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Roger Boyd - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Tal Liani - BofA Securities, Research Division
John Jeffrey Hopson - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Adam Borg - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to CrowdStrike's Fiscal Third Quarter 2026 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to hand the call over to Andy Nowinski, Vice President of Investor Relations and Strategic Finance. Andy, please go ahead.

Andy Nowinski

Good afternoon, and thank you for your participation today. With me on the call are George Kurtz, Chief Executive Officer and Founder of CrowdStrike; and Burt Podbere, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I would like to note that certain statements made during this conference call that are not historical facts, including those regarding our future plans, objectives, growth, including projections and expected performance, including our outlook for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2026 and any assumptions for fiscal periods beyond that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

These forward-looking statements represent our outlook only as of the date of this call. While we believe any forward-looking statements we make are reasonable, actual results could differ materially because the statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. We do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information on these and other factors that could affect the company's financial results is included in the filings we make with the SEC from time to time, including the section titled Risk Factors in the company's quarterly and annual reports.

Additionally, unless otherwise stated, excluding revenue, all financial measures disclosed on this call will be non-GAAP. A discussion of why we use non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation schedule showing GAAP versus non-GAAP results is currently available in our earnings release, which may be found on our Investor Relations website at ir.crowdstrike.com or on our Form 8-K filed with the SEC today.

With that, I will now turn the call over to George.

George Kurtz
Co-Founder, President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Andy, and a warm welcome to the CrowdStrike team. Andy is no stranger to many on this call, and I'm glad to have him with us to lead Investor Relations.

I'm excited to share CrowdStrike's fantastic Q3. It was a record quarter as the business continued accelerating. On the back of record attendance at Fal.Con Global and Fal.Con Europe 2025, the momentum we're seeing with customers, prospects and partners drives my conviction in our near-term and long-term growth.

Last quarter, Q2, we delivered our forecasted reacceleration a quarter early. This quarter, we furthered the trend with relentless execution. Across the entire CrowdStrike team, I'm extremely proud of our Q3 with highlights including: one, record Q3 net new ARR of $265 million, which grew 73% year-over-year, beating our expectations by more than 10%; two, ending ARR of $4.92 billion, which accelerated to 23% growth year-over-year; three, record Q3 free cash flow of $296 million or 24% of revenue; four, all-time record operating income of $265 million or 21% of revenue, this is the second consecutive quarter of record operating income; five, broad-based ending ARR acceleration across cloud, Next-Gen Identity and Next-Gen SIEM collectively as well as acceleration in our endpoint business; and six, more than $1.35 billion in ending ARR from accounts that have adopted the Falcon Flex subscription model, growing more than 200% year-over-year.

Underpinning these financial highlights is the CISO, CIO and Board feedback I regularly hear. CrowdStrike is mission-critical in today's agentic society. No matter how the market swings, geopolitical tensions evolve or what technologies are in vogue, our digital society mandates cybersecurity as a necessity. And now more than ever, synonymous with that, CrowdStrike is a necessity.

Our growth is driven by pervasive, durable and thematic market forces. Organizations of all sizes are in the midst of AI transformations, investing in the future of workforce productivity in the name of speed, scale and cost benefits. In the midst of this societal shift, what I've shared over the past few years and quarters is unfolding before our very eyes.

One, AI is rapidly expanding the attack surface. Businesses are onboarding a whole new type of workforce today, the agentic workforce, humans using agents to do more and agents working by themselves, each with access to data, applications, compute and sometimes even other agents.

While the benefits of this newfound workforce are exciting and increasingly vital for market competitiveness, the rapidly expanding risk profile of this realm cannot be ignored. Every single agent expands the attack surface, necessitating protection. CrowdStrike is both the armor and intelligence layer that keeps each agentic identity secure. The intelligence layer, providing visibility and context to organizations from agentic threats and risks, and the armor protecting agents from attacks, influence, exfiltration and data manipulation.

In addition, CrowdStrike is also present as the foundational protector of the underlying technologies powering the AI revolution, providing security by design for the world's cloud and token factories.

Two, the democratization of destruction wasn't just a bold prediction, it's already today's reality. Businesses every day are having jarring, lightbulb moments witnessing AI-powered adversarial trade craft firsthand. Just a few weeks ago, a major AI company shared that China state-sponsored adversaries were using their LLM to create and operationalized active cyber intrusion agents. This is just one of the many AI-enabled attacks we've seen. The AI cyber battleground is no longer theoretical, it's now real. Now just as anyone can use AI to vibe code and become a software engineer, anyone can now also vibe hack, becoming a sophisticated adversary with AI.

Three, cybersecurity in the agentic era demands a single platform. The criticality in being able to operate with agility, efficacy and speed to stop breaches is having the data, the controls and the actions in a single platform, not multiple platforms because when you have multiple platforms, by definition, you don't have a platform. Tab switching and contact switching cost time, data stitching doesn't scale. These are the seams and cracks where adversaries thrive.

The leaky lifeboat of PowerPoint platforms and point product fragments simply cannot offer the protection, scalability and cost benefits or the ease of use of a single platform solution. CrowdStrike wins as the market's broadest and only single platform solution.

Taking my 3 points together: One, we've built the right architecture, a single console, single data backend, single sensor, agentic hyperscale platform that is frictionless and one of a kind in cybersecurity; two, it's the right time with the rapid growth of AI agents raising the threat risk profile and driving a holistic technology shift; and three, we're in the right position. CrowdStrike's technology, innovation engine and ecosystem position us as the operating system of cybersecurity for the agentic era.

Market demand is high because the need is real. We have the right architecture, we have the right products and we're in the right market position to continue taking share. Successful AI adoption requires cybersecurity transformation, necessitating a new operating system to create a structure around the next chapter of enterprise security programs.

Falcon Next-Gen SIEM is the foundation of our platform, turning CrowdStrike into our customers' operating system for cybersecurity. Next-Gen SIEM has become a scale disruptor in a market that has historically been slow to evolve as customers embrace the speed and efficiency advantages versus legacy competitors. And with the acquisition of Onum, we're making it even easier to build on CrowdStrike with a hyper scalable telemetry detection pipeline that brings CrowdStrike even closer to all our customers' critical data.

Falcon Next-Gen SIEM had a record net new ARR quarter, a clear outcome of the deliberate strategic choices we've made over the past several years. We know that the value of the technology is only as good as the platform on which it's delivered. So we invested heavily in integrating Next-Gen SIEM to create a unified single platform.

This isn't just a single console. It's a truly integrated and unified data backend that brings together all of CrowdStrike in one place, delivering not just economies of scale, but far superior outcomes. And with Charlotte as the agentic SOC orchestrator, now FedRAMP High approved, we're delivering the AI SOC of the future today.

Furthering our position as the operating system of cybersecurity, we recently announced our expanded partnership with AWS. Through this announcement, all of AWS's millions of customers will have access to Falcon Next-Gen SIEM natively within their AWS security console, enabling them to immediately access, interact with and analyze AWS telemetry directly in Next-Gen SIEM. Going a step further, we've also enabled federated search so that AWS customers can query their data from a single console.

We're incredibly excited about what the future holds and thank AWS for both our amazing partnership and for their validation of Falcon Next-Gen SIEM as the best choice for their customers. A large European bank renewed their more than 500,000 workload EDR deployment, adding Next-Gen SIEM, Onum and Charlotte in a large 8-figure expansion deal. With our acquisition of Onum, this financial institution was able to eliminate their existing streaming pipeline point product as well as migrate off Splunk.

Competing against hyperscalers and firewall vendor SIEMs, Falcon Next-Gen SIEM won the hearts and minds of the security and IT team as the easiest solution, fastest to see value and best agentic SOC transformation platform.

Our identity business continues to perform exceptionally well. While the demand for our ITDR offering has increased, it's the launch of both our PAM and Falcon Shield offerings that has our customers increasingly excited. Falcon Shield had a record net new ARR quarter, growing nearly 50% sequentially as market demand for SaaS application security has become a mainstream necessity, securing SaaS app misuse from human and nonhuman identities has never been more important or challenging.

Nefarious agentic behavior is targeting data-rich SaaS applications that have quickly become a feeding ground for breaches. From on-prem apps to cloud apps, we stopped these breaches. A Fortune 500 logistics company used Falcon Shield to uncover exfiltrated CRM data in less than 30 minutes from deployment, resulting in a 7-figure deal. A leading customer experience platform saw a Shield demo and activated the module via Flex within an hour.

And lastly, a Global 500 personal care leader conducted a Shield assessment uncovering 25 unknown shadow instances of their CRM. This customer quickly transacted a 7-figure expansion, bringing their SaaS environment under control. As these examples illustrate, today's elevated third-party SaaS risk environment demands visibility and protection. Falcon Shield delivers near immediate time to value and is a product that we can land new logo accounts with even without endpoint deployments.

Turning to the cloud where we delivered Q3 record net new ARR. While CrowdStrike continues to benefit from M&A-related market disruptions, it is our customers' embrace of best-in-class runtime protection that continues to push us forward. As the cloud security market matures, customers are realizing that posture doesn't equate to prevention. Security teams now understand that they need active defense within their cloud environments, and this can only be delivered in runtime. CrowdStrike is the cloud runtime security leader as validated by the most recent Frost & Sullivan CWP report.

And with our recent acquisition of Pangea, we're now positioned to protect the entirety of our customers' AI infrastructure. At our recent Analyst Day at our Fal.Con conference, we discussed how protecting AI is akin to protecting a building. Security teams don't want a nonintegrated, fragmented series of solutions to protect their critical AI infrastructure because they know that this complexity creates gaps that are increasingly exploitable by AI-enabled adversaries.

CrowdStrike Falcon Cloud Security offers customers a unified, integrated end-to-end solution that enables secure adoption of transformative technology without slowing the end user down. A Fortune 500 consumer packaged goods company grew their Falcon deployment with Falcon Cloud Security in a 7-figure expansion deal. This customer took the opportunity to displace Wiz, bringing their cloud security program to Falcon for the benefit of our consolidated CSPM, ASPM, CIEM and CDR approach. The outcome delivered is single platform management, better visibility and the ability to stop cloud breaches versus simply alerting on them. This was just one of multiple Wiz replacements.

In addition, Falcon Cloud Security was selected to protect a leading neo cloud in an 8-figure transaction. This token factory decided it was time to secure AI from the source so that enterprises of all sizes would trust and build with confidence on them. Cybersecurity became a differentiator and business enabler, not a cost.

And finally, I wanted to touch on our endpoint business. Our endpoint business accelerated in the quarter on the heels of AI-driven demand. In the world of AI, so much is being pushed to the edge. Employees are now deploying new applications such as Claude desktop and ChatGPT directly onto their machines, driving both rapidly improved productivity and also significant new risks. This is further exacerbated by the rapid adoption of new AI browsers such as Comet and Atlas, which bring new opportunities and concurrently new vulnerabilities and threats.

AI adoption is supercharging renewed interest in the endpoint as the endpoint is the epicenter of human and nonhuman interaction with AI. In this new agentic world, the endpoint has quickly become the risk point, the productivity point and the opportunity point. A large government agency took the opportunity to modernize, replacing more than 75,000 endpoints of legacy AV with Falcon as well as deploying us in their AWS environment for cloud protection in what was a strong federal quarter for CrowdStrike.

In addition, EY brought us into a Fortune 500 health care account, where in just a few months, we were able to modernize the endpoint, cloud and SIEM environments, an 8-figure end-to-end Flex expansion deal where we displaced 2 SIEMs, Defender for endpoint and a point cloud security product.

Frequently imitated but never duplicated, Falcon Flex makes it easier than ever for our customers to experience the full power of the Falcon platform without procurement friction. The Flex model cultivates more platform utilization, accelerating module adoption. Falcon Flex is an unlock, not an ELA.

Flex customer ending account ARR more than tripled year-over-year. But what has us even more excited is the momentum we're seeing in re-Flex activity. The number of re-Flex accounts more than doubled quarter-over-quarter to more than 200 with 10 customers re-Flexing more than 2x their initial Flex subscription. This demonstrates that Flex customers can and do increase their ARR and TCV spend with CrowdStrike, which is contrary to the ELA model, where all the economic value is realized once upfront.

When we launched Flex, we believe that it would allow customers to more quickly benefit from the full value of our platform, and that's exactly what's happening. As customers and partners alike continue to embrace Flex as the best way to adopt Falcon, we expect it to become our licensing standard. Our community or crowd powers our technology, and that's who we build for. Our ecosystem partners continue leading us to new heights, affirming CrowdStrike's market and category leadership.

Our Alliance team delivered a record quarter in terms of deal value closed with partners. CrowdStrike's market position comes to light in mission-critical times. F5 asked us to partner with them to further secure their BIG-IP hardware and virtual appliances. We rapidly deployed our sensor on BIG-IP, which they certified and F5 took the opportunity to purchase Falcon and OverWatch licensing for their installed base in a large Flex transaction.

We are pleased to be taking our industry-leading protection capabilities to new insertion points, designed to enhance network perimeter protection. Today, hundreds of F5 customers are now securing their F5 appliances with CrowdStrike, many of whom weren't CrowdStrike customers prior.

Partners take us into new account environments, implementing Falcon as part of their broader agentic enterprise architecture vision. Experiencing the success of Next-Gen SIEM in the market, EY took a bold step to standardize their SIEM practice on Falcon in a large 7-figure transaction. EY is migrating accounts for which they own and operate multiple legacy SIEM technologies, consolidating on CrowdStrike.

Additionally, EY is a leading global partner of ours for Next-Gen SIEM implementations, taking numerous Fortune 500 accounts through the journey from legacy SIEM to Next-Gen SIEM migration. Deloitte announced Next-Gen SIEM in their MXDR practice, replacing their legacy SIEM provider. And Wipro, too, has standardized security delivery and incident response on Falcon.

The GSI community is quickly seizing the SIEM and SOC transformation opportunity that only our single platform provides. The ecosystem embrace of partner-led services on Falcon is correlated to the opportunity we represent. A recent Canalys report showed that our ecosystem creates up to $7 in services opportunities for every dollar of Falcon product sales, illustrating the large ecosystem opportunity surrounding the Falcon platform.

I want to return to yesterday's announcement that we made with AWS. AWS selected Falcon Next-Gen SIEM as the default SIEM for all their customers offered in their Security Hub console. This brings Falcon Next-Gen SIEM with prepopulated AWS data to millions of AWS customers in a product-led growth motion. Our intent is to convert Next-Gen SIEM usage into Flex subscriptions as more accounts experience the power, speed and actionability of their AWS data, CrowdStrike data and other third-party data in Next-Gen SIEM.

Our Next-Gen SIEM helps AWS fill a critical market gap, now competing with other hyperscaler SIEMs and doing so with Falcon. Our Next-Gen SIEM delivers value for AWS customers, even those who don't yet use Falcon because we've become a federated, prepopulated and affordable security data lake for observability, triage and threat hunting. And Charlotte is there to help operate the whole system on a customer's behalf.

In addition, Accenture is our launch partner with AWS, helping AWS customers leave their legacy SIEM for Falcon Next-Gen SIEM on AWS. Our partnership with AWS continues from strength to strength with CrowdStrike announced as AWS' Global Security Partner of the Year and AWS' Global Marketplace Partner of the Year yesterday at re:Invent. We're excited about the opportunity to engage AWS accounts, onboarding them to Falcon and serving as their operating system for cybersecurity.

Lastly, I want to share a noteworthy MSSP partnership, which we've announced today with Kroll, a leading mid-market professional services firm. Kroll's cybersecurity division performs thousands of incident response engagements yearly for mid-market firms around the world, largely from their cyber insurance panel inclusion. Kroll had been using a point product EDR in their incident response and managed detection and response business.

Now Kroll exclusively uses Falcon. And in an almost 8-figure rip-and-replace transaction, Kroll is migrating nearly 0.5 million endpoints to Falcon, which were previously running on a point product SMB EDR and up-leveling their own MDR service with Falcon Complete for service providers with our Falcon Complete team becoming the SOC for Kroll.

This partnership announcement illustrates the value that only CrowdStrike can deliver, the best technology platform with numerous expansion opportunities to help customers and partners alike consolidate, the services opportunities partners need to see value, whether that be an incident response, proactive assessments, managed detection and response or SOC transformation and our scaled and agentic MDR teams to up-level partners so they can focus on selling and client services while we focus on stopping breaches as the world SOC.

We've improved Kroll's technology stack, displaced an inferior point product, improved their margins with Falcon Complete and they migrated their entire practice to us. This transaction highlights the power of Falcon to be a business creator for our ecosystem. We're not selling products. We're delivering outcomes, introducing the world to a whole new way of performing cybersecurity and risk management.

In closing, this was one of our very best quarters in company history. Acceleration is back. We're winning and we're living the company's mission of stopping breaches. AI represents our largest opportunity and demand driver yet. We're using AI to revolutionize cybersecurity. And even larger, we're securing the world's use of AI, so businesses of all sizes can adopt more AI faster, securely and with confidence.

The takeaway is this, AI adoption necessitates the right cybersecurity. It necessitates CrowdStrike. Jensen Huang summed up our market position best saying, "I can't imagine a better defender than CrowdStrike," on the stage at NVIDIA GTC in Washington, D.C. The transformative work we're doing with NVIDIA is representative of how we're securing AI at its very source, all the way down to its human and nonhuman users and its outcomes. I see this as a generational opportunity for the company.

AI is but one of many tailwinds continuing to propel CrowdStrike to new heights. One thing is certain, whenever our customers engage in technology change and transformation, cybersecurity has been a constant necessity, and that constant is CrowdStrike.

With that, we have a big Q4 opportunity in front of us, a robust demand environment and no shortage of breaches to stop. Cybersecurity doesn't slow down for the holidays and neither do we. Stay safe, happy holidays, and I'll pass the call over to Burt Podbere, CrowdStrike's CFO.

Burt Podbere
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, George, and good afternoon, everyone. As a quick reminder, unless otherwise noted, all numbers, except revenue mentioned during my remarks today are non-GAAP. Additionally, the results we are reporting today include the acquisitions of Onum and Pangea, which closed during the quarter and were de minimis to revenue and ARR.

We delivered an exceptional third quarter driven by organic growth, exceeding expectations across all guided metrics. We achieved record Q3 net new ARR of $265 million, exceeding our expectations by double-digit millions and more than 10 percentage points. Net new ARR growth accelerated to 73% year-over-year and ending ARR reached $4.92 billion, accelerating to 23% growth over last year.

As George highlighted, our performance reflects the success of our single platform strategy as organizations prioritize cybersecurity in the agentic era and customers consolidate on Falcon as the operating system of the SOC.

We delivered acceleration across the platform with cloud, Next-Gen SIEM and Next-Gen Identity, all delivering strong results. Momentum was broad-based across customers of all sizes from enterprise to down market and MSSPs, achieving record results in our corporate business and strong performance in the public sector, particularly in U.S. federal and higher education.

Falcon Flex continues to be a powerful driver of platform consolidation with over $1.35 billion in ending ARR from accounts that have adopted the Flex subscription model. Falcon Flex is quickly becoming the standard licensing model as it makes it easier for customers to adopt more of the Falcon platform faster. Customers continue to leverage Falcon to consolidate their security needs and lower their total cost of ownership, resulting in higher retention rates over the prior quarter and increased module adoption rates.

As of Q3, 49% of subscription customers are now using 6 or more modules, 34% are using 7 or more and 24% are using 8 or more modules. With our business momentum increasing and our all-time record high pipeline entering Q4, we have strong conviction in our ability to deliver profitable growth as we finish FY '26 and look into FY '27 and beyond.

Moving to the P&L. Total revenue exceeded our guidance range and grew 22% over Q3 of last year to reach $1.23 billion. Subscription revenue grew 21% over Q3 of last year to reach $1.17 billion and professional services revenue was $65.5 million. The geographic mix of third quarter revenue consisted of approximately 67% from the U.S. and 33% from international geographies with both U.S. and APAC year-over-year revenue growth accelerating compared to Q2.

Total non-GAAP gross margin was 78% and non-GAAP subscription gross margin increased to 81% of revenue. Total non-GAAP operating expenses in the third quarter were $703.2 million or 57% of revenue. In Q3, we saw a typical step-up in sales and marketing expenses from our annual Fal.Con conference we hosted in September, which was our biggest selling event of the year and set multiple records with over 8,000 attendees joining us.

Non-GAAP operating income was a record $264.6 million, and operating margin was 21%, exceeding our guidance. The outperformance was driven by our strong top line performance, gross margin improvement and sales execution, underscoring our commitment to profitable growth as we balance accelerating net new ARR growth with operational excellence.

GAAP net loss attributable to CrowdStrike was $34.0 million, which included $26.2 million of costs associated with the July 19 incident and related matters and $5.6 million of acquisition-related expenses. Non-GAAP net income attributable to CrowdStrike was a record $245.4 million or $0.96 on a diluted per share basis, exceeding our guidance.

Moving to cash. Our cash and cash equivalents were $4.80 billion. We generated record cash flow from operations of $397.5 million and record Q3 free cash flow of $295.9 million or 24% of revenue. Payments for incident-related and strategic plan costs impacted Q3 free cash flow by approximately $53 million.

Moving to our outlook and modeling notes. The AI-driven demand environment, combined with our record pipeline and the continued momentum in customer platform consolidation on Falcon gives us strong conviction as we finish Q4 and look toward FY '27.

While we do not guide to ending ARR or net new ARR, our revenue guidance includes the following assumptions: Low to mid-teens sequential net new ARR growth Q3 to Q4, bringing ending ARR growth for FY '26 to 23% year-over-year. At the midpoint of our net new ARR assumptions, we expect second half net new ARR growth of at least 50% year-over-year, well above our previously provided assumptions of at least 40% year-over-year, driven by our strong Q3 outperformance and record pipeline. Additionally, we continue to expect FY '27 year-over-year net new ARR growth of at least 20% from our now increased FY '26 net new ARR assumptions.

As we discussed during our September investor briefing, as a result of our successful CCP and related partner programs, our ARR to subscription revenue assumptions include a separation of $13 million to $15 million in Q4. Consistent with what we noted at Fal.Con, this gets you to the midpoint of our FY '26 revenue guidance, which we have raised by $24.1 million at the midpoint to reflect our strong Q3 outperformance and a record pipeline. We ask that you please be mindful of these dynamics when updating your models.

Moving to cash. We expect Q4 free cash flow margin to be 27% and include cash payments of approximately $33 million in connection with incident-related costs. This brings our full year FY '26 free cash flow margin expectation to 25%.

Finally, we remain confident in our previously provided assumptions for FY '27 partner rebates, non-GAAP operating margin and free cash flow margin, which are detailed in the modeling assumption slide of our Q3 FY '26 earnings presentation available at ir.crowdstrike.com following our prepared remarks today.

Moving to our outlook. For the fourth quarter of FY '26, we expect total revenue to be in the range of $1.290 billion to $1.300 billion, reflecting a year-over-year growth rate of 22% to 23%. We expect non-GAAP income from operations to be in the range of $315 million to $319 million and non-GAAP net income attributable to CrowdStrike to be in the range of $282 million to $287 million.

We expect diluted non-GAAP net income per share attributable to CrowdStrike to be approximately $1.09 to $1.11, utilizing a 21% tax rate and weighted average share count of approximately 258 million shares on a diluted basis.

For the full fiscal year of 2026, we currently expect total revenue to be in the range of $4.797 billion to $4.807 billion, reflecting a growth rate of 21% to 22% over the prior fiscal year. Non-GAAP income from operations is expected to be between $1.036 billion and $1.040 billion. We expect fiscal 2026 non-GAAP net income attributable to CrowdStrike to be between $950 million and $954 million. Utilizing a 21% tax rate and approximately 256 million weighted average shares on a diluted basis, we expect non-GAAP net income per share attributable to CrowdStrike to be in the range of $3.70 to $3.72.

George and I will now take your questions.