Cintas Corporation (CTAS) Q2 2026 Earnings Call December 18, 2025 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Jared Mattingley - VP, Treasurer, Investor Relations & Corporate Controller
Todd Schneider - CEO, President & Director
James Rozakis - Executive VP & COO
Scott Garula - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Timothy Mulrooney - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Manav Patnaik - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Andrew Steinerman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Joshua Chan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jasper Bibb - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Andrew J. Wittmann - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Keen Fai Tong - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Jason Haas - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Faiza Alwy - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Stephanie Benjamin Moore - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Scott Schneeberger - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Shlomo Rosenbaum - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Toni Kaplan - Morgan Stanley, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Cintas Corporation Announces Fiscal 2026 Second Quarter Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Jared Mattingley, Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Jared Mattingley
VP, Treasurer, Investor Relations & Corporate Controller

Thank you, Ross, and thank you for joining us. With me are Todd Schneider, President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Rozakis, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Scott Garula, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We will discuss our fiscal 2026 second quarter results. After our commentary, we will open the call to questions from analysts.

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. This conference call contains forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current views as to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those we may discuss. I refer you to the discussion on these points contained in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I'll now turn the call over to Todd.

Todd Schneider
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Jared. We had another successful quarter, reflecting the strength of our value proposition. Cintas delivered record revenues and strong operating margin performance, while we continue to invest in our business to position the company for the future. Second quarter total revenue grew a strong 9.3% to $2.8 billion. The organic growth rate, which adjusts for the impacts of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, was 8.6%. Each of our 3 route-based businesses had strong revenue growth in the quarter.

Our business continues to operate at a high level as our employee-partners deliver strong execution across the board and maintain a clear focus on driving value for our customers and shareholders. Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 50.4%, a 60 basis point increase over the prior year. Operating income grew to $655.7 million, an increase of 10.9% over the prior year. Diluted EPS of $1.21 grew 11% over the prior year.

Our strong revenue growth is creating leverage and our cost savings initiatives and investments we've made are helping to improve our employee-partners' productivity and help them deliver better solutions for our customers. Our operating margin for the company was an all-time high. The operating margins for our 2 largest route-based businesses were also all-time highs, reflecting the high level of execution by our employee-partners.

Turning to guidance. We are raising our fiscal 2026 financial guidance. We expect our revenue to be in the range of $11.15 billion to $11.22 billion, a total growth rate of 7.8% to 8.5%. We expect diluted EPS to be in the range of $4.81 to $4.88, a growth rate of 9.3% to 10.9%.

With that, I'll turn it over to Jim to discuss the details of our second quarter results.

James Rozakis
Executive VP & COO

Thanks, Todd. This quarter marked another period of solid progress for our business as we continue to advance the rollout of our technology initiatives and build on the strong foundation of organic growth we have established. Our focus on innovation, operational excellence and customer engagement is delivering measurable results. We are strengthening our relationships with existing customers through expanded offerings and superior service, which has led to all-time highs in retention rates while also successfully attracting new customers who see the clear benefits of partnering with us. These achievements reflect the commitment and talent of our employee-partners whose efforts are positioning us for sustained success.

Turning to our business segments. Organic growth by business was 7.8% for Uniform Rental and Facility Services, 14.1% for First Aid and Safety Services, 11.5% for Fire Protection Services and 2% for Uniform Direct Sale. Gross margin percentage by business was 49.8% for Uniform Rental and Facility Services, 57.7% for First Aid and Safety Services, 48.2% for Fire Protection Services and 41.9% for Uniform Direct Sale.

Gross margin for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services segment increased 70 basis points from last year. The 49.8% gross margin is the second highest gross margin ever for this segment. The strong revenue growth in this segment is helping to create leverage. In addition, our supply chain team and process improvement initiatives from our engineering and Six Sigma Black Belt teams continue to help expand our margins while navigating the current economic environment.

Gross margin for the First Aid and Safety Services segment was 57.7%. This equals their previous all-time high set last year. As we mentioned previously, the mix of revenue and timing of investments can impact this business from quarter-to-quarter. We are pleased our investments to grow this business are generating strong double-digit revenue growth while being able to expand our gross margin.

We are growing in many ways. We're adding new business with over 2/3 being converted from no-programmers. We are cross-selling to existing customers. Our retention rates are at all-time highs, and we continue to experience success in our focus verticals of health care, hospitality, education and state and local governments.

Our strong culture of execution, combined with multiple growth levers, has positioned us, over the years, to grow in multiples of jobs growth and GDP. All businesses have a need for image, safety, cleanliness and compliance. Our value proposition resonates in all economic cycles as evidenced by our growth in sales and profit in 54 out of the last 56 years.

With that, I'll turn it over to Scott to discuss our operating income, capital allocation performance and 2026 guidance assumptions.

Scott Garula
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Jim, and good morning, everyone. As Todd mentioned, we continue to perform at a high level as evidenced by record level revenue and operating margins for the second quarter. Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue was 27%, which was a 20 basis point increase from last year.

Second quarter operating income was $655.7 million compared to $591.4 million last year. Operating income as a percentage of revenue was 23.4% in the second quarter of fiscal 2026 compared to 23.1% in last year's second quarter, an increase of 30 basis points and an all-time high.

Our effective tax rate for the second quarter was 21.2% compared to 20.7% last year. The tax rates in both quarters were impacted by certain discrete items, primarily the tax accounting impact for stock-based compensation.

Net income for the second quarter was $495.3 million compared to $448.5 million last year. This year's second quarter diluted earnings per share was $1.21 compared to $1.09 last year, an increase of 11%. For the second quarter, our free cash flow was $425 million, an increase of 23.8% over the prior year. Our strong cash generation allows us to have a balanced approach to capital allocation in order to create value for our shareholders.

In the second quarter, we continued to invest in our businesses through capital expenditures of $106.3 million. Also in the second quarter, we were able to make strategic acquisitions totaling $85.6 million in all 3 of our route-based businesses.

During the second quarter, we paid dividends in the amount of $182.3 million. Also during the second quarter and as of December 17, we were active in the buyback program with repurchases of $622.5 million of Cintas shares. That is the third largest share repurchase we've made in a quarter. During the first 6 months of fiscal 2026, we have returned $1.24 billion in capital to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks.

Earlier, Todd provided our updated guidance for the remainder of the fiscal year. As you contemplate the guidance, it is important to remember that during the third quarter of fiscal 2025, we recognized a $15 million gain on the sale of an asset. That will not repeat and will be a headwind when comparing the third quarter results year-over-year.

In addition, please note the following in the guidance. Both fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2026 have the same number of workdays for the year and by quarter. Our guidance does not assume any future acquisitions. Our guidance assumes a constant foreign currency exchange rate, fiscal 2026 net interest expense of approximately $104 million, a fiscal 2026 effective tax rate of 20%, which is the same compared to our fiscal 2025, and the guidance does not include the impact of any future share buybacks or significant economic disruptions or downturns.

With that, I'll turn it back to Todd for some closing remarks.

Todd Schneider
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Scott. Looking ahead to the second half of fiscal 2026, we are right where we want to be, and our focus remains on helping customers meet and, in many cases, exceed their image, safety, cleanliness compliance needs. We remain committed to leveraging our investments to sustain our positive momentum and deliver exceptional customer service. I want to thank our employee-partners for their incredible commitment to our customers and everything they do for Cintas.

I'll now turn it back over to Jared.

Jared Mattingley
VP, Treasurer, Investor Relations & Corporate Controller

That concludes our prepared remarks. Now we are happy to answer questions from the analysts. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

