Citi Trends, Inc. (CTRN) Q2 2025 Earnings Conference Call August 26, 2025 9:00 AM ET

Company Participants

Heather Plutino - CFO, Principal Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer & Executive VP
Kenneth Duane Seipel - CEO & Chairman of the Board

Conference Call Participants

Jeremy Scott Hamblin - Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, Research Division
Michael Allen Baker - D.A. Davidson & Co., Research Division
Nitza McKee - ICR Inc.

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Citi Trends Second Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Nitza McKee, Senior Associate at ICR. Thank you. Please go ahead.

Nitza McKee

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on Citi Trends' Second Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. On our call today is Chief Executive Officer, Ken Seipel; and Chief Financial Officer, Heather Plutino.

Our earnings release was sent out this morning at 6:45 a.m. Eastern Time. If you have not received a copy of the release, it's available on the company's website under the Investor Relations section at www.cititrends.com. You should be aware that prepared remarks today made during this call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Management may make additional forward-looking statements in response to your questions.

These statements do not guarantee future performance. Therefore, you should not place undue reliance on these statements. We refer you to the company's most recent report on Form 10-K and other subsequent filings within the Securities and Exchange Commission for a more detailed discussion of the factors that can cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward- looking statements.

I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Ken Seipel. Ken?

Kenneth Duane Seipel

Thank you. Well, good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today on our second quarter earnings call. I'm pleased to report another quarter of consistent performance, demonstrating disciplined execution and progress across every area of our business.

Our transformation remains guided by a clear 3-phase framework designed to deliver sustainable, profitable growth. First, Phase 1 is repair, that's restoring our fundamentals and establishing a strong foundation. Phase 2 is our execute phase, embedding consistent best practices and driving reliable performance. And we are going to be entering in the future Phase 3, which is optimize, leveraging new systems and expansion capabilities to accelerate our growth. These 3 phases create the foundation for a disciplined approach to capture the near-term and long-term opportunity of growth for Citi Trends.

Now turning to our results. In the second quarter, we generated strong comparable sales growth of 9.2%, marking our fourth consecutive quarter of mid-to-high single-digit comp sales growth. Year-to-date, we've delivered year-over-year comp growth of 9.6%, and I'm happy to report that sales momentum consistent with our first half top line trends has continued into the back-to-school season. This August will be representing 13 consecutive months of comparable store sales growth.

Gross margin dollars have increased meaningfully, achieving our highest rate performance in the last several years. As our buying teams have fine-tuned assortments for our core customers, we've experienced faster sell-throughs of regular priced product, reduced markdowns and improved operational controls for shrinkage and transportation rates.

Our SG&A was slightly deleveraged in the quarter due to the inclusion of incentive compensation for the consistent financial performance of our employees. It's been quite a few years since the company achieved its bonus targets. So I'm excited to add performance-based bonus back to our financial profile. Excluding the new performance bonus incentive compensation, our SG&A leveraged in the quarter and leveraged year-to-date, consistent with our guidance.

Our top line continues to grow, to be broad-based and healthy. Transaction growth has consistently accounted for the majority of our sales gain, which validates the strategic advantage of our neighborhood locations. And additionally, we saw growth in units per transaction while maintaining stable average unit retails.

Also, our performance was consistent across climate zones, regions and store volume deciles, which underscores the breadth of improvement across the business. Our turnaround is rooted in a clear and unwavering focus on the needs of our African-American

customer, who is at the center of everything we do. Neighborhood-based locations remain a differentiated advantage with proximity and word of mouth serving as powerful traffic drivers.

We continue to strengthen this connection by elevating the cultural relevance of our assortments, refreshing the shopping experience to better align with our brand voice and investing in customer engagement. Work is underway to design and implement a CRM and loyalty platform that will deepen interaction with our most frequent shoppers, thus enhancing long-term customer value.

Our product performance in Q2 was broad-based and balanced across apparel, nonapparel, family basics, home and lifestyle and children's categories. In all categories, customers responded well to elevated fashions and expansion of brand name apparel. Women's Plus and Big Men's apparel had strong performance and both remain early-stage businesses with significant runway ahead.

Men's delivered improved results as trend-relevant assortments and improved in-stocks on basics resonated with customers. In children's, a cornerstone of our business, has continued strong year-over-year performance. And our customers continue to respond to extreme value deals on well-known brands at exceptional prices as we continue to build capabilities to expand this important segment of our strategy.

Looking ahead in product, we've made good progress in improving our 3-tiered good, better and best product assortments, but we are still in early stages. The majority of our initial initiatives, which include better in-stocks on basic product, accelerated growth of Women's Plus and Big Men's sizes, expansion of the consumables category and the addition of extreme value products have had good early success. We see significant growth runway ahead, though, as we continue to fulfill consumer demand in all of these categories.

In addition, our merchants have identified several growth opportunities through assortment refinement as we learn more about our customers. For example, our men's team is working to develop an expanded and more refined assortment for young men. We believe we are underserving this trendy value-oriented consumer. Young men's will complement the already strong men's classic and core business.

In our women's apparel, customers are responding to the increased offering of trendy missy size product. Missy product broadens the availability of style and size for women and complements the strong offering of junior product. Customer reaction to our best trendy product has been strong, giving us confidence there's more demand to address. This has led us to add a trend director to identify emerging trends and guide curation of product assortment. We were fortunate to find an accomplished trend director with a successful track record of trend curation at well-known brands in the industry. I believe the elevation of trend in our men's and women's assortments will be additive and supportive to our merchant teams and resonate strongly with our customers.

From an operational standpoint, we made continued progress on our initiatives in the second quarter. Foundational improvements in preseason product planning, in-season allocation execution and supply chain speed have enabled us to support a 9.2% comp growth while operating with 5.7% less in-store inventory than last year.

Working capital optimization provides liquidity and flexibility to react quickly to emerging trends and deal opportunities while also enhancing gross margin. Our stores continue to make strides in improving neat, clean and organized shopping experiences for customers. We've implemented improved in-store navigation signing and updated presentation standards to make shopping experience easier.

Our supply chain remains stable with progress against productivity and steam goals. And looking ahead, we're in the process of implementing improved work processes throughout the DCs and implementing special handling areas to assist us in overall processing speed and capacity to grow extreme value product and family footwear. I look forward to sharing more on this initiative on future calls.

Looking ahead in operations, test results for our new AI-based allocation system have been well above expectations, allowing us to more accurately allocate product based on individual store demand, which has in turn increased sales and improved inventory turns.

We are in the process of implementing AI-based allocations to all categories with expected completion in mid-September in time for to impact holiday. Concurrently, we're in the early stages of developing a complementary AI-based merchandise planning system that we hope to have ready for early 2026. Here again, we'll keep you updated on our progress.

As we all know, retail is detail and execution without measurement is just simply guesswork, which is why our use of KPIs and dashboards for all key functions is critical. The visibility provided, helps our team stay on track, identifying where we're hitting the plans and where we need more attention. The combination of simple, repeatable processes supported by operating procedures plus KPIs makes us confident that we'll be able to drive continual operational improvement for years to come.

And a few comments on tariffs. As evidenced in our results, we are successfully navigating the ever-changing tariff landscape. In fact, we've actually found the off-price products deal-making environment to be very robust and advantageous.

My direction to the team is be aggressive, remain flexible with ample liquidity. Our strategy is working. We intend to play our game and win at our game.

Now I'll turn the call over to Heather to discuss the financial performance. Heather?

Heather Plutino

Thank you, Ken, and good morning, everyone. I'm excited to have the opportunity to walk you through the details of our second quarter and first half results as well as our improved outlook for the year.

Before I do that, let me echo some themes from Ken's comments. The transformation of Citi Trends is underway and is driving significant improvement in both top and bottom line results. As I've said in previous calls, there's a new energy at Citi Trends and the results we get to share with you today are proof that our team's hard work is paying off.

Turning to the specifics of second quarter results. Starting with the top line, Q2 sales were $190.8 million, up 8% compared to Q2 2024 with comp store sales growth of 9.2%, our fourth consecutive quarter of mid- or high single-digit comps. We delivered high single-digit comps in each month of the quarter and saw growth to last year, in each of our retail metrics, traffic, basket and conversion as the impact of our revised merchandise assortment, including off-price deals and more branded extreme value products continues to resonate strongly.

As Ken mentioned in his remarks and similar to our first quarter results, second quarter top line improvement to last year is a story of consistency. We saw consistent results across climate zones and across store volumes, and we drove consistent broad-based strength across most product categories.

We produced a 40% gross margin rate in the quarter as planned, our highest Q2 rate since fiscal 2021 and an 890 basis point expansion versus Q2 last year. Recall that in the second quarter of last year, we incurred significant markdowns from our strategic inventory reset, allowing us to exit aged and slow-moving products while freeing up open to buy for our revised product strategy.

The effect of lapping that event, net of the in-season markdown cadence established last year, significantly improved year-over-year markdown expense. We also drove decreased shrink expense in the quarter as a result of ongoing cross-functional efforts plus the lap of an accrual adjustment last year.

Our broad-based Q2 margin rate improvement was also impacted by higher selling margins due to increased full price selling and a favorable mix of higher-margin products, all while maintaining our sharp price value equation throughout the store. And finally, we saw improvement in cost of freight from favorable contract rates put in place last fall.

Second quarter adjusted SG&A expense totaled $78.9 million compared to $72.1 million in the prior period. The increase to last year was driven by higher incentive compensation accrual on improved business performance and store and DC expense to process higher sales. As we shared with you in our last call, we reinstated incentive compensation accruals in Q1 of fiscal 2025 after incurring very minimal bonus and equity expense in the last 3 quarters of fiscal 2024, causing a bonus to no bonus comparison in the second quarter.

On a rate basis, Q2 adjusted SG&A was 41.3% of revenue, 50 basis points higher than the 40.8% rate in Q2 last year. The rate increase was driven entirely by this year's incentive compensation accruals. All other SG&A levered by approximately 150 basis points in the quarter, reflecting continued disciplined cost controls and the impact of improved top line results. And it's important to note that for the first half of the year, total adjusted SG&A, including incentive comp, levered about 90 basis points to last year.

Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was a loss of $2.6 million, in line with management expectations and an increase of $14.6 million versus Q2 2024 results. In the quarter, we sold our 72,000 square foot building in Savannah, Georgia, realizing a gain on the sale of approximately $11 million, which is included in reported net income and reported EBITDA, but is excluded from adjusted results.

We will maintain our presence in Savannah, having leased a new smaller office space, not far from the building we sold, giving our teams a fresh new space for continued collaboration.

During Q2, we remodeled 19 stores, ending the quarter with 28% of the fleet in an updated format. We also closed one store in the quarter, bringing our total store count to 590 locations.

Before turning to the balance sheet, let me provide a few details on our performance in the first half of fiscal 2025. First half comparable store sales were 9.6% with a 2-year comp stack of 10.3%. First half comps were driven by approximately 6% increase in transactions. Adjusted first half EBITDA was $2.8 million, an increase of about $21 million to last year.

EBITDA growth was driven by $29 million of incremental sales, 480 basis points of gross margin rate expansion and 90 basis points of SG&A leverage.

Now turning to the balance sheet. Total inventory dollars at quarter end, decreased 12.9% compared to last year, with average in-store inventory down 5.7%. Our success in driving high single-digit increases -- sales increases with less inventory reflects our focus on improved inventory efficiency through higher turns plus improvements in supply chain speed. We remain pleased with our inventory level, composition and freshness.

At the end of the quarter, we remained in a healthy financial position with a strong balance sheet, including no debt, no drawings on our $75 million revolver and $50 million in cash.

Now turning to our fiscal 2025 outlook. Based on our first half results, our confidence in the continued effectiveness of our turnaround plan, plus recognition that the macroeconomic environment remains uncertain, we are pleased to update our outlook for 2025 as follows.

With the strength of sales in the first half of the year, we now expect full year comp store sales growth of mid- to high single digits, above our previous outlook of mid-single-digit growth. We now expect full year gross margin expansion of approximately 210 to 230 basis points versus 2024, slightly above previous outlook due to improved inventory efficiency and initial progress on our planned supply chain improvements.

SG&A is expected to leverage in the range of 60 to 90 basis points versus 2024, consistent with our first half trend and an improvement to our previous outlook. Note that this is inclusive of the build of the incentive comp accrual. To be clear, we now expect full year SG&A expense of approximately $310 million, an increase in guidance due to cost to process and support higher sales and a higher bonus accrual on better business performance.

With these updates, we now expect full year EBITDA to be in the range of $7 million to $11 million, an increase to previous outlook. This revised guidance is $21 million to $25 million above fiscal 2024 results. There is no change to our expected effective tax rate of approximately 0% for the year. We now expect to open 3 new stores, close 3 stores and to remodel approximately 60 locations in the year. And finally, full year capital expenditures are now expected to be in the range of $22 million to $25 million.

Before I turn the call back to Ken, I'll reiterate that we are very proud of our Q2 and first half results and the meaningful progress we've achieved so far. Our teams remain focused on continuous improvement with full recognition that there are still significant opportunities ahead of us. We still have processes to refine and areas to optimize as we continue the transformation of our business.

The consistency of our performance over the past 4 quarters gives me confidence that we're building something durable and that our disciplined approach to driving shareholder value will continue to deliver results.

With that, I'll turn the call back to Ken. Ken?

Kenneth Duane Seipel

Thank you, Heather. Before we open the call to Q&A, I do want to share a few thoughts about our longer-range growth for Citi Trends.

So looking forward, we are preparing for store expansion growth. We expect to remodel approximately 50 stores per year and expand square footage in the mid-single-digit range. We have engaged a third-party analytics team to assist us with dissecting the demographics, psychographics and geo proximity location of our current customers right down to the individual household level.

These insights, coupled with a robust financial pro forma, will greatly improve our accuracy in real estate site selection, leading to improved new store return on investment performance. We have identified several MSAs that are attractive expansion opportunities for Citi Trends in 2026 and beyond.

Long range, our goal at Citi Trends is to achieve $40 million or more of EBITDA by 2027 -- in 2027. This will be driven by consistent single-digit sales growth, gross margin dollar expansion, leveraged SG&A and new store expansion. Each initiative within our value creation plan is supported by clear accountability, key performance indicators and execution rigor.

Our leadership team is highly engaged in building out the detailed plans to execute and is fully committed to making these plans a reality.

In summary, Citi Trends has delivered 4 consecutive quarters of comp growth, underpinned by transaction increases, broad-based product strength and disciplined execution. Our strategy is working, our operational capabilities are advancing and our customer connection is strengthening. But there's still a lot of work to do. We have processes to refine. We have categories to optimize and more systems to build, but the path forward is clear.

We are confident in our ability to deliver continued transformation, drive shareholder value and expand our role as the leading neighborhood retailer for African-American families.

I'll say thank you to our Citi Trends team for their discipline, their dedication and great results, and thank you to our shareholders for your continued confidence and support. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to the operator for questions. Donna?