Chevron Corporation (CVX) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 31, 2025 11:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Jake Spiering - General Manager of Investor Relations
Michael Wirth - Chairman & CEO
Eimear Bonner - VP & Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Sam Margolin - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Devin McDermott - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Neil Mehta - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Ryan Todd - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Douglas George Blyth Leggate - Wolfe Research, LLC
Biraj Borkhataria - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Paul Cheng - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Stephen Richardson - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Jean Ann Salisbury - BofA Securities, Research Division
Jason Gabelman - TD Cowen, Research Division
Arun Jayaram - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Phillip Jungwirth - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Lucas Herrmann - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Paul Sankey - Sankey Research LLC
Bob Brackett - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Geoff Jay - Daniel Energy Partners, LLC
James West - Melius Research LLC

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Katie, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I will now turn the conference call over to the Head of Investor Relations of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Jake Spiering. Please go ahead.

Jake Spiering
General Manager of Investor Relations

Thank you, Katie. Welcome to Chevron's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. I'm Jake Spiering, Head of Investor Relations. On the call with me today is our Chairman and CEO, Mike Wirth; and our Vice President and CFO, Eimear Bonner. We will refer to the slides and prepared remarks that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we begin, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can be found in the appendix to this presentation. Please review the cautionary statement and additional information presented on Slide 2.

Now I'll turn it over to Mike.

Michael Wirth
Chairman & CEO

Okay. Thanks, Jake. In the third quarter, Chevron delivered record production and strong cash generation, supporting sustained shareholder distributions. The period was marked by several key milestones as we execute our plan for resilient and industry-leading free cash flow growth. Worldwide production exceeded 4 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, driven by strong growth and high reliability across the upstream. Hess integration is on track. Synergies are being realized and asset performance has exceeded expectations. The Ballymore tieback project reached design capacity ahead of schedule, taking us another step closer to delivering over 300,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the Gulf of America. And we achieved first production at the ACES green hydrogen project in Utah.

Earlier this month, a fire occurred at our El Segundo refinery. Importantly, there were no serious injuries and we continue to meet our supply commitments. We're cooperating with all regulatory agencies and have our own investigation underway. Our top priority at Chevron is always the safety of our people and the communities we work with.

Now I'll turn it over to Eimear to go over the financials.

Eimear Bonner
VP & Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Mike. For the third quarter, Chevron reported earnings of $3.5 billion, or $1.82 per share. Adjusted earnings were $3.6 billion, or $1.85 per share. Included in the quarter were special items totaling $235 million. These included severance and other hedge related transaction costs and were partially offset by the fair value measurement of Hess shares held at the time of closing. Foreign currency effects increased earnings by $147 million.

Organic CapEx was $4.4 billion for the quarter. We expect full year organic CapEx inclusive of Hess to be $17 billion to $17.5 billion, in line with guidance.

Adjusted third quarter earnings were up $575 million versus last quarter. Adjusted Upstream earnings increased due to higher liftings and were partially offset by higher DD&A. Legacy Hess assets contributed $150 million in the quarter. Adjusted Downstream earnings increased due to higher refining volumes, improved chemical margins and favorable timing and OpEx results.

Other segment earnings decreased due to higher interest expense, corporate charges and unfavorable tax effects.

Adjusted third quarter earnings were down $900 million versus last year. Adjusted Upstream earnings decreased due to lower liquids realizations and higher DD&A from increased production at TCO, the Gulf of America and the Permian. The increase in OpEx and DD&A includes the impacts of the Hess acquisition.

Adjusted Downstream earnings were higher, primarily due to improved refining margins. The Other segment was down mainly due to higher interest expense and other corporate charges. These results include benefits from our structural cost savings program. Our new operating model is live, and we've captured approximately $1.5 billion in annual run-rate savings so far, and expect to see further benefits in the fourth quarter.

Cash flow from operations, excluding working capital, was $9.9 billion in the quarter. This represents a 20% increase compared to the same quarter last year when crude prices were $10 higher. Adjusted free cash flow, which includes equity affiliate loans and asset sales was $7 billion, and included the first loan repayment from TCO of $1 billion.

Cash returned to shareholders totaled $6 billion and was more than covered on adjusted free cash flow. We expect strong cash generation to continue even in a lower price environment, underpinned by the increased capital efficiency and growth in high-margin assets.

Third quarter oil equivalent production was up 690,000 barrels per day from last quarter, primarily due to legacy Hess production. In addition, strong execution drove production growth in the Permian, the Gulf of America and TCO. We expect full year average production growth at the top end of our 6% to 8% guidance range, excluding legacy Hess.

Back to Mike to wrap it up.

Michael Wirth
Chairman & CEO

Okay. Thanks, Eimear. Before we close, I'd like to say a few words of remembrance in honour of Chevron Board member, Dr. Alice Gast, who passed away earlier this week. In 1978, as a 20-year-old sophomore at Stanford, Alice served an internship at Chevron's Richmond refinery. She went on to earn her PhD in Chemical Engineering at Princeton. Her career came full circle 34 years later when she joined the Chevron's Board in 2012.

Alice was an internationally known scholar and researcher who served as President of both Lehigh University and Imperial College London. She encouraged us to stay curious, value teamwork and believe the best solutions come from listening to one another. Her legacy lives on in the questions we ask, the way we work together and the respect we show one another.

And lastly, I have a final reminder that we're holding our Investor Day on November 12. You can find details and instructions for the webcast on chevron.com. We look forward to sharing our outlook to 2030 and highlighting our diversified and resilient portfolio. You can expect to hear about a consistent, disciplined and stronger Chevron. We hope you can join us. Over to you, Jake.

Jake Spiering
General Manager of Investor Relations

That concludes our prepared remarks. Additional guidance can be found in the appendix of this presentation as well as the slides and other information posted on chevron.com.

We are now ready to take your questions. We ask that you limit yourself to just 1 question. We will do our best to get all of your questions answered. Katie, please open the lines.