DraftKings Inc. (DKNG) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 7, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Michael DeLalio
Jason Robins - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Alan Ellingson - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

David Katz - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Stephen Grambling - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Daniel Politzer - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
William Lampen - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Robert Fishman - MoffettNathanson LLC
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Jed Kelly - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Shaun Kelley - BofA Securities, Research Division
Bernard McTernan - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Joseph Stauff - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Benjamin Chaiken - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Jason Tilchen - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
Ian Moore - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the DraftKings Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's program is being recorded. And now I'd like to introduce your host for today's program, Michael DeLalio, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Michael DeLalio

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Certain statements we make during this call may constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors as discussed further in our SEC filings that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or from our forecast. We assume no responsibility to update forward-looking statements other than as required by law.

During this call, management will also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe may be useful in evaluating DraftKings' operating performance. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for DraftKings' financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available in our earnings release, slide presentation and business update, which can be found on our website and in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC.

Hosting the call today, we have Jason Robins, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of DraftKings, who will share some opening remarks and an update on our business. Following Jason's remarks, our Chief Financial Officer, Alan Ellingson, will provide a brief review of our financials. We will then open the line to questions.

I will now turn the call over to Jason Robins.

Jason Robins
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you all for joining. This is the most bullish I've ever felt about the future of DraftKings. This may sound surprising given we are revising our fiscal year 2025 guidance ranges today. However, underlying growth in the business is accelerating. We are also increasingly advantaged through new exclusive marketing agreements with ESPN and NBCUniversal as well as our leading product offerings continuing to improve. Finally, we are launching DraftKings predictions in the coming months, which we view as a significant incremental opportunity.

Overall, I believe that our long-term financial potential has never been brighter. The progress we made over the last few years has been outstanding. In 2022, we reported a little more than $2 billion of revenue and nearly $1 billion of negative adjusted EBITDA. In 2025, only 3 years later, we expect to generate $5.9 billion to $6.1 billion of revenue and $450 million to $550 million of positive adjusted EBITDA. Our Sportsbook net revenue margin is on track to increase by more than 400 basis points over the last 4 years, which is more than 100 basis points per year on average as our parlay handle mix and efficiency of promotions all continue to improve.

We are achieving this expansion while also maintaining very high customer retention rates. In fact, retention of NFL week 1 customers is up over 300 basis points in the last 4 NFL weeks compared to the same weeks a year ago. Recent product enhancements are also driving strong customer engagement. NFL handle has grown 13% season to date, and NBA handle has grown 19% season to date, an acceleration compared to the growth we were seeing in recent quarters.

That acceleration has continued to build in the first month of the fourth quarter as our total sportsbook handle increased 17% year-over-year in October. Parlay handle mix continues to surge with year-over-year gains of 800 bps for NFL season to date and 1,000 bps for NBA season to date. iGaming has been similarly strong with third quarter net revenue growth accelerating to 25% year-over-year, the fastest growth we've experienced since the first quarter of 2024.

We are even more excited about the future. Our new exclusive marketing agreements with ESPN and NBCUniversal will provide us deeper brand affinity and broader reach, including unmatched NBA access. In fact, early indicators suggest our NBA share is significantly higher than it was at this point last year. Our top-rated sportsbook experience continues to set the standard for speed, depth and breadth, and we will soon launch Spanish language functionality that will meet the demands for a growing audience ahead of the World Cup in 2026.

In iGaming, we're developing innovative slot and jackpot content and recently brought in a new leader to solidify and grow our position. The next point I would like to touch on is sport outcomes. We have made significant progress growing our Sportsbook hold percentage and net revenue margin in recent years, primarily due to parlay handle mix increasing while also experiencing short-term positive and negative sport outcome variances. It is important to understand that over the course of most sports seasons, this variance typically evens out and should not be overly significant.

However, because sports seasons do not align with fiscal quarters, there will be certain periods when outcomes positively and negatively impact reported financial results. For example, in the second quarter of 2025, sportsbook-friendly outcomes positively impacted our revenue by roughly $100 million, driving record performance for revenue, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin. Conversely, in September and October, customer-friendly sport outcomes impacted our revenue by more than $300 million as just a handful of NFL games had a pronounced effect.

Over the long term, however, sport outcomes do not affect the underlying earnings power of our business, but there will be periods where we can meaningly overperform or underperform our expectations based on these variances. I'd also like to touch on the recent rise of predictions. We have experienced numerous waves of competition in recent years, mostly from well-capitalized companies that have built or acquired strong sports betting product offerings, and those have had minimal impact on DraftKings revenue trajectory.

By comparison, predictions are structurally limited, lacking the depth and breadth of a sports betting offering. There are also numerous data points from around the globe that validate the predictions in sports is relatively small and largely incremental relative to traditional sports betting. In actuality, we see predictions as a significant incremental opportunity. We are excited about our pending launch of DraftKings predictions and its potential to expand our total addressable market.

In the coming months, we expect DraftKings predictions to enter many new states with sport event contracts, unlocking a new customer base and revenue stream. Nearly half the country's population remains without access to legal online sports betting, but there are several other companies offering federally regulated predictions in all 50 states. As growth in predictions continues, this may also motivate more states to legalize online sports betting and iGaming with reasonable regulation and taxation.

To close out my thoughts on predictions, I would leave you all with 3 key takeaways. First, we will pursue this opportunity, we will compete and we will win. For the same reasons that we have been successful competing in the sports betting industry, we expect to succeed here. Second, we will be thoughtful on how we launch DraftKings predictions and do so in a way that is respectful of other stakeholders.

As such, we plan to focus on the states where we do not offer Sportsbook, which is also where we believe the vast majority of the financial opportunity exists. Third, we will be measured in our investment level, understanding that gross profit payback periods need to be shorter relative to our more established product lines, where we have more predictability around what customers we acquire will be worth over time.

Finally, I want to touch on our share repurchase program. We have bought back 9.3 million shares since the inception of this program, and we are pleased to announce that our Board has authorized increasing our repurchase program from $1 billion to $2 billion. We anticipate being active with share repurchases over the next quarter and expect to continue returning capital to our shareholders as free cash flow ramps up over the coming years.

Thank you all for your support. We promise to continue working relentlessly to create meaningful value for you in 2026 and beyond.

Alan Ellingson
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Jason. Before I cover our fiscal year guidance, I'd like to discuss our third quarter 2025 financial performance. Please note that all income statement measures discussed except for revenue, are on a non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA basis. In the third quarter, we generated $1.144 billion of revenue, representing 4% year-over-year growth. We also generated negative $127 million of adjusted EBITDA. First off, we do recognize our third quarter financial results were below our expectations due to the pronounced impact of customer-friendly sports outcomes.

In the last 2 months, these outcomes impacted our revenue by more than $300 million, with just a handful of NFL games having an outsized effect. But as Jason highlighted, there is a lot to be excited about in our business. Our underlying customer metrics are as strong as they've ever been. Our MUPs growth was healthy, increasing 6% year-over-year when excluding the impact of Jackpocket from all periods. Customer acquisition was also a bright spot, increasing year-over-year across the entire enterprise and also for direct to Sportsbook despite not having any new state launches. In Sportsbook, we continue to drive strong engagement. Sportsbook handle increased 10% year-over-year to $11.4 billion.

As we see strong returns on our promotions, we will adjust our investment levels based on deliberate and calculated return observations. The results of our promotions around the start of the NFL season has been outstanding. As Jason mentioned, our October handle accelerated meaningfully year-over-year. That mix improvements are also exceeding what we've been estimating, providing us even more confidence in our long-term Sportsbook hold percentage.

Shifting to iGaming. Our third quarter net revenue reflected a solid acceleration compared to the first half of 2025, driven by strong year-over-year growth in both active customers and net revenue per customer. On a per customer basis, we made strong progress growing gross gaming revenue while also optimizing our promotions for more advanced cohort modeling.

Now I'll touch on our fiscal year 2025 guidance. In August, we guided fiscal year 2025 revenue of $6.2 billion to $6.4 billion and adjusted EBITDA of $800 million to $900 million. Based on all of the aforementioned, today, we are providing fiscal year 2025 revenue guidance of $5.9 billion to $6.1 billion and fiscal year 2025 adjusted EBITDA guidance of $450 million to $550 million. Our revenue guidance range implies growth of 24% to 28% compared to what we achieved in fiscal year 2024.

Notably, our fiscal year 2025 guidance ranges now include the expected launch of a predictions market offering which we're excited about as we begin to look ahead to 2026.

That concludes our remarks, and we will now open the line for questions.