DigitalOcean Holdings, Inc. (DOCN) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 5, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Melanie Strate
Padmanabhan Srinivasan - CEO & Director
Matt Steinfort - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Gabriela Borges - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Radi Sultan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Josh Baer - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
William Kingsley Crane - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
James Fish - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Matthew Calitri - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Mark Zhang - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Wamsi Mohan - BofA Securities, Research Division
Robert Galvin - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. My name is Rebecca, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the DigitalOcean Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would like to turn the call over to Melanie Strate, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Melanie Strate

Thank you, Rebecca, and good morning. Thank you all for joining us today to review DigitalOcean's Third Quarter 2025 Financial Results. Joining me on the call today are Paddy Srinivasan, our Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Steinfort, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made on the call today may be considered forward-looking statements, which reflect management's best judgment based on currently available information. Our actual results may differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements, including our financial outlook. I direct your attention to the risk factors contained in our filings with the SEC as well as those referenced in today's press release, that is posted on our website.

DigitalOcean expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements made today. Additionally, non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on this conference call and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's earnings press release as well as in our investor presentation that outlines the financial discussion on today's call. A webcast of today's call is also available in the IR section of our website.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Paddy.

Padmanabhan Srinivasan
CEO & Director

Thank you, Melanie. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today as we review our third quarter results. I'm very excited to share our results for the quarter and to give you an update on the progress that we are making against the goals that we articulated earlier this year during our April Investor Day.

Our performance this quarter was very strong. We exceeded our Q3 guidance on both revenue and profitability metrics, delivering 16% revenue growth and the highest incremental organic ARR in the company's history, while generating 21% trailing 12-month adjusted free cash flow margins. We continued innovation in our comprehensive agentic cloud to support the needs of scaling AI and digital native enterprise customers, making sure there is no reason our highest spending customers ever need to leave our platform.

We augmented our industry-leading product-led growth engine with a focused direct sales motion, driving customers to migrate workloads from the hyperscalers to our platform and building traction with direct AI native customers. This progress is evident in the rapid growth of our largest customers and their increasing willingness to sign committed contracts with us, with customers having more than $1 million in annualized run rate reaching $110 million in ARR, growing 72% year-over-year and with multiple customers signing 8-figure committed contracts after the quarter closed.

The demand for our agentic cloud has exceeded our supply. Our performance and the visibility we have into demand gives us the confidence both to increase our 2025 and 2026 revenue and adjusted free cash flow outlook and to also increase our investments in data centers and GPU capacity to further accelerate growth while maintaining attractive margins. I will now dive deeper into all of this, starting with our third-quarter financial results as highlighted on Slide 10 of our earnings deck.

Q3 revenue hit $230 million, up 16% year-over-year, marking the highest growth since Q3 2023. We delivered our highest organic incremental ARR in company's history at $44 million. This growth was driven by a balanced performance across our comprehensive agentic cloud platform as Direct AI revenue more than doubled year-over-year for the fifth consecutive quarter, and our general-purpose cloud products saw the highest incremental organic ARR since Q2 of 2022.

We delivered this accelerating revenue growth in Q3 while exceeding our profitability guidance and materially strengthening our balance sheet. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP earnings per share were both well above guidance on the back of strong execution, and we delivered a strong 21% trailing 12-month adjusted free cash flow margin as we introduced equipment leasing into our financial toolkit in Q3 to better align the timing of our investments with our revenue. To give us further flexibility to invest in growth, we also repurchased the majority of our 2026 convert in the quarter, strengthening our balance sheet.

The primary drivers behind our accelerating top-line growth are threefold: number one, the increasing momentum we are seeing with AI-native customers; next, the material traction we continue to generate with our highest spend digital native enterprise customers; and finally, the continued strength we are seeing in revenue from new customers. Our unified Gradient AI agentic cloud, which is outlined on Slide 7 of our investor presentation, is getting increasing traction with larger, well-funded AI native companies that are in inference mode.

These scaling companies increasingly leverage our unified agentic cloud with many of our top customers already leveraging both AI and general-purpose cloud capabilities and with many more having at least starting to test and experiment with AI on our platform. Evidence of this traction is in the growth rates of our highest spending customers.

Revenue from these customers who are at $100,000-plus annual run rate grew 41% year-over-year, increasing to 26% of total revenue. Growth is even higher for our largest digital native enterprise customers as the more -- our customers are spending the faster they're growing on DO.

The charts on Slide 11 show that our customers with greater than $500,000 and greater than $1 million in annualized run rate grew revenue 55% and 72%, respectively, providing clear evidence that our increasing ability to not just attract but also retain and grow our largest customers, demonstrating that customers can keep scaling on our platform and never have a reason to leave.

Let me now dive deeper into this traction using Slide 12 as the backdrop to illustrate just how much progress we have made since the last earnings call. I will start with our AI infrastructure on the bottom right, which is a full-stack inference platform targeting AI native customers that have their own models that they want to tune, optimize and run in inference mode.

These customers select our platform for our full set of capabilities, where we combine a powerful lineup of GPUs that are available in both bare metal and droplet configurations, including inference optimized droplets with advanced inference performance optimization like page retention, flash attention, FP8 quantization, speculative decoding, model operations management, reduced time for first token and compelling TCO economics.

Our AI infrastructure provides comprehensive hardware plus software infrastructure for AI-native companies that are scaling up real-world inference workloads globally on DO. FAL.ai or Fal, a generative media model platform that provides text-to-image and text-to-video models for major customers such as Canva, Shopify, Perplexity and more is a great example of a customer that is taking advantage of our unified agentic cloud.

They leverage a range of our AI infrastructure solutions, including GPU droplets, both to host their media models in production, serving their end customers and to do research and fine-tuning. Fal is more than just an important customer as we have come together in a strategic partnership to accelerate generative AI content creation by making image and audio generation more accessible to start-ups and enterprises. Through this partnership, Fal will host and run hundreds of its models on DigitalOcean's infrastructure, powering applications across creative and enterprise use cases.

This means customers can create agents that understand and generate not only text but also images, data and other forms of input, significantly expanding the range of real-world problems our customers can solve. NewsBreak is another example of an AI native customer leveraging our unified agentic cloud.

Driving the next generation of digital media, NewsBreak delivers timely and relevant local news and information to 40 million monthly active users. Newsbreak's AI-powered infrastructure makes sophisticated personalization accessible to mainstream users nationwide. They utilize our AI infrastructure to train and deploy complex recommender systems and natural language processing models that are foundational to their products.

Our AI infrastructure, high throughput and memory capacity are critical for running inference at scale, which allows them to perform real-time content ranking and ad placement for millions of concurrent users. Gradient AI agentic cloud unifies our integrated AI capabilities with our full-stack general-purpose cloud, which we've been optimizing for over a decade, enabling NewsBreak to preprocess their work on our CPU droplets and run their vector search service in advance of running their AI workloads, optimizing both cost and performance.

Network file storage, or NFS, which delivers high throughput performance for both GPU and non-GPU droplets, is an example of a unified agentic cloud capability. Customers can now attach and provision storage in just minutes, accelerating time to value by eliminating idle time. With seamless integration into our Kubernetes engine, NFS makes it easier than ever to scale applications and workloads while maintaining speed, reliability and efficiency across environments.

Moving up the stack outlined in Slide 7. The AI platform layer on the middle right is typically leveraged by companies that are users or consumers of AI that are looking to build agentic applications without having to directly manage the infrastructure. As we know, the future of AI is an agent and agentic workflows, which is a natural evolutionary step for all SaaS and other applications.

We continue to evolve our AI platform as the foundation for building and deploying these intelligent agents and powering complex enterprise agentic workflows. It now supports serverless inferencing across the most popular models, including OpenAI, Anthropic, Mistral, Llama, DeepSeek and others, including new generative media models from Fal.

We have added a powerful knowledge-based service that lets customers bring their own data and improve accuracy, along with built-in Guardrails for safety, visual agent orchestration and enterprise-grade features like observability, git integration and auto-scaling. Together, these capabilities make our Gradient AI agentic cloud platform one of the most intuitive and complete platforms for taking AI agents from prototype to production.

These key capabilities help companies develop and operate AI agent fleets and manage their full life cycle of these agents seamlessly from a single platform while leveraging the best-of-breed AI models from various providers. We are particularly excited about a major customer we signed for our AI platform after the Q3 quarter closed.

This customer is a global digital systems integrator who signed an 8-figure per year multiyear contract to leverage our agentic cloud to drive AI transformation for its digital native enterprise customer base with a specific focus on identifying the full software engineering life cycle, including planning, backlog and road map management, release planning, release execution and customer support.

We'll provide more information on this exciting customer after we formally announce the partnership in the upcoming days. The AI platform layer continues to also gain broader momentum with over 19,000 agents created so far of which more than 7,000 are already in production.

One specific customer, Shakazamba, an Italian leader in GDPR compliant, ethical and secure AI solutions across Europe, chose to leverage the Gradient AI agentic cloud over the hyperscalers. By using our platform, they're now able to create and roll out agents to automate customer support, knowledge management and content creation while reducing development time and costs associated with the agent life cycle.

This quarter, we also expanded our AI ecosystem with the launch of the DigitalOcean AI Partner program with several of our partners outlined on Slide 13. This is a major step in empowering AI and digital native enterprises that are building and scaling their businesses leveraging AI. These companies don't have time for a fragmented infrastructure. They instead want a unified cloud and an AI platform that lets them seamlessly build and scale intelligent applications using agents.

This new partner program brings together AI-native companies, integrators and the venture ecosystem to help these builders reach more customers, accelerate innovation and amplify their global reach. Combined with our AI platform and infrastructure, this ecosystem makes DigitalOcean the go-to destination for these AI-native businesses who want simplicity, scalability and reach without the hyperscale complexity.

In Q3, we continued to deliver product innovation in our core cloud stack to support our highest spending customers by meeting their needs as they scale their business on DO. One such example of a digital native enterprise customer scaling rapidly on DO is Bright Data a leading provider of web data sets to global frontier LLM labs for training AI models. Bright Data leverages various components of our agentic cloud to scale high-volume global workloads on our platform.

VPN Super, who develops trusted VPN and security solutions is the most downloaded VPN app in the world is another digital native enterprise growing on our platform. VPN Super empowers millions of users across the globe to browse securely and privately regardless of their location.

They signed a 7-figure deal to migrate multiple workloads to DigitalOcean, and they selected DO for our ability to handle large traffic spikes, platform reliability and our global scale. These growing customers require general-purpose cloud capabilities that grow with their business, and we delivered a number of these new features during the quarter, as you can see highlighted on Slide 12 of our earnings presentation.

For example, we recently introduced Spaces Cold Storage, an enterprise-grade object storage solution designed for customers managing data at massive scale. With support for hundreds of petabytes and billions of objects per bucket, it offers free retrieval, predictable low cost and immediate access to data, eliminating the trade-off between affordability and performance. This cold storage is secure, reliable and resilient, providing our customers with the confidence to store and access mission-critical data sets seamlessly as their needs grow.

During the quarter, we also enhanced our managed databases offering with automated storage auto scaling, enabling customers to scale seamlessly as their data needs grow. When capacity thresholds are reached, storage automatically scales in 10-gigabyte increments or higher with 0 downtime and no disruption to workloads. This feature is available across all major database engines, including MongoDB, PostgreSQL, MySQL and is fully customizable, allowing customers to set thresholds starting at 20% utilization.

With a simple pay-as-you-go model, auto scaling eliminates the burden of manual intervention, ensuring that applications scale reliably and cost-effectively. The steady stream of new features is resonating with our AI and digital native enterprise customers. Over 35% of our customers with more than $100,000 in ARR have adopted at least one of our new features released over the past year, and those customers having adopted at least one of these new products have seen a several hundred basis points increase in their growth rate after adopting the new product.

Our strong performance, our growing momentum through the first 3 quarters and the visibility that we now have into demand gives us the confidence to raise our near-and medium-term growth outlook. We are raising our full-year 2025 guidance on both revenue and margin and we now expect to achieve our 18% to 20% 2027 revenue growth target in 2026, a full year earlier than we had projected.

It has also given us the confidence to accelerate our investments to drive growth in 2026 and beyond. When we outlined our 2027 growth objectives this past April, we indicated that we would increase our investment as we saw opportunities to accelerate our growth. We are now seeing more demand than we can support with our existing capacity, which is evident by us having signed multiple 8-figure committed contracts after the quarter ended that will materially increase our RPO in Q4.

With this increased conviction, we began to put the foundational elements in place in Q3 to even further accelerate our growth. We started ordering more GPU capacity to meet the growing inference demands we are seeing from our AI native customers. We also secured around 30 megawatts of incremental data center capacity to support growth in 2026 and beyond.

We added equipment financing to better align our investments with revenue. We ramped engineering resources to accelerate our unified agentic cloud road map and continued our targeted investment in new sales and marketing initiatives to complement our industry-leading product-led growth engine. These investments will build on the success we have seen to date and will set us up for a strong 2026 and 2027.

Our Q4 and 2025 full-year guidance implies a 16% exit 2025 growth rate. And while we won't provide 2026 guidance until our February earnings call, we expect to comfortably deliver 18% to 20% growth in 2026, achieving our 2027 growth target a full year earlier than previously projected.

We will deliver this growth while maintaining strong adjusted free cash flow margins in the mid- to high teens. Matt will provide further color on these investments and the projected impact on our growth and profitability in his remarks. As I said in my opening, we delivered a strong performance in Q3, beating our guidance on both revenue and profitability. We are seeing momentum with our unified agentic cloud.

And this momentum is evident in the rapid growth of our highest spending customers and demand is exceeding our current capacity. All of this gives us the conviction both to raise our 2025 and 2026 revenue and adjusted free cash flow outlook and to increase our investments to take advantage of the opportunity in front of us. We look forward to sharing more on our progress and our outlook for 2026 over the upcoming months.

Thank you, and I'll now turn it over to Matt.

Matt Steinfort
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Paddy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. As Paddy discussed, we are excited about our strong Q3 2025 performance. We are gaining traction with our unified agentic cloud, which is resulting in strong revenue growth from our highest spending customers, and we are seeing more demand and satisfied with our current capacity.

This momentum and visibility give us conviction both to increase our 2025 and 2026 revenue and adjusted free cash flow outlook and to put in place the foundations to further accelerate growth in 2026 and beyond. In my comments, I'll walk through our Q3 results in detail, share our fourth quarter and updated full year financial outlook and also provide an update on our 2026 expectations.

Starting with the top line. Revenue in the third quarter was $230 million, up 16% year-over-year, the highest revenue growth since Q3 of 2023. This growth was balanced across our unified agentic cloud and was primarily driven by increasing traction with our higher spending AI and digital native enterprise customers with steady contributions from our product-led growth engine.

We continue to see strong AI/ML revenue growth in Q3 with AI revenue more than doubling year-over-year, which it has done every quarter since we launched our AI platform. We also delivered the highest incremental organic ARR in company history at $44 million, bringing ARR to $919 million. With rapid product innovation across our unified agentic cloud platform and with the strategic go-to-market investments we made earlier this year proving to be effective, we are having increasing success attracting and growing larger, well-funded AI and digital native enterprise customers.

This is evident in the revenue from our customers whose annualized run rate revenue in the quarter was greater than $100,000, which now represents 26% of overall revenue, growing 41% year-over-year, 200 basis points higher than the growth we saw from that cohort in the prior year. Adding to this growth, revenue from general-purpose cloud customers in their first 12 months on our platform continues to be strong, and we have stabilized NDR as net dollar retention remained at 99% in the quarter, up 200 basis points from 97% in the third quarter of 2024.

Turning to the P&L. While we accelerated revenue, we also delivered strong performance on all of our key profitability metrics. Gross profit was $137 million, up 17% year-over-year, with a 60% gross margin for the third quarter, 100 basis points higher than the prior year.

Adjusted EBITDA was $100 million, a 15% increase year-over-year and an adjusted EBITDA margin of 43%. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share was $0.54, a 4% increase year-over-year. This result was impacted by the $625 million convertible note we issued in August, the repurchase of $1.19 billion of our 2026 notes and the interest expense from the $380 million drawn on the Term Loan A component of our existing credit facility.

The net impact on non-GAAP net income per share of these balance sheet activities was a reduction of $0.05 in Q3. And excluding these charges, non-GAAP diluted net income per share would have been $0.59. GAAP diluted net income per share was $1.51, a 358% increase year-over-year. This increase is primarily driven by the onetime reversal of our tax valuation allowance and gain on debt extinguishment, which is slightly offset by the impact of our new debt structure.

Q3 adjusted free cash flow was $85 million or 37% of revenue, which is up significantly from the prior year's $19 million or 10% of revenue and on a trailing 12-month basis was 21% of revenue. This increase was driven in part by the equipment financing in Q3. During the quarter, we entered into an equipment financing arrangement with a third-party financial institution for $28 million to better align our investments with the future revenue that they will generate. Absent the leasing of this equipment, our adjusted free cash flow would have been 25% of revenue in Q3.

Turning to the balance sheet. We strengthened our balance sheet by repurchasing approximately 80% of our 2026 convertible notes through a combination of the issuance of a new $625 million 2030 convertible note offering, a $380 million drawdown on the Term Loan A component of our existing credit facility and approximately $230 million of cash. Following these actions, our cash and cash equivalents balance remained healthy at $237 million and the combination of cash on hand, remaining Term Loan A capacity and projected cash flow generation is collectively more than the remaining balance of our outstanding 2026 convertible notes.

We repurchased $2.9 million of shares in Q3, buying back approximately 101,000 shares, bringing our cumulative share repurchase since IPO to $1.6 billion and 34.9 million shares through September 30, 2025. These Q3 repurchases completed our 2024 buyback program, and we will operate our repurchase program through July 31, 2027, under the new $100 million authorization we announced during the quarter.

During the quarter, we repurchased a portion of our 0% coupon 2026 convertible notes in part with an interest-bearing Term Loan A that is initially at SOFR plus 175 basis points or roughly 6.1%. As a result, we now project to have moderate interest expense in the near to medium term, where interest expense was previously immaterial. Given this, we have added a new disclosure metric for unlevered adjusted free cash flow, which we will provide in addition to the current adjusted free cash flow metric, which is a levered adjusted free cash flow.

We believe that unlevered adjusted free cash flow is an important metric as it provides a clear view of our cash generation before the impact of financing decisions, and many investors and analysts use this unlevered adjusted free cash flow as the basis for their enterprise value calculation. Our Q3 unlevered adjusted free cash flow was $85 million or 37% of revenue.

The strong demand we've seen across our unified agentic cloud and the traction we are seeing with our higher spending AI and digital native enterprises, coupled with the increased visibility we have from having signed multiple 8-figure committed contracts after Q3 close, gives us the confidence to raise our outlook on both revenue and adjusted free cash flow margin for both 2025 and 2026.

For the fourth quarter of 2025, we expect revenue to be in the range of $237 million to $238 million, which is approximately 16% year-over-year growth. For the full year 2025, we project revenue of $896 million to $897 million, representing approximately 15% year-over-year growth, an incremental 100 basis points higher than our prior guidance.

For the fourth quarter of 2025, we expect our adjusted EBITDA margins to be in the range of 38.5% to 39.5% with an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 41% for the full year. For the fourth quarter of 2025, we expect non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to be $0.35 to $0.40 based on approximately 111 million to 112 million in weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding.

For the full year 2025, we expect non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to be $2 to $2.05 based on approximately 106 million to 107 million in weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding. The Q4 and full year non-GAAP diluted earnings per share guidance includes the projected impact of a range of about $0.05 to $0.10 reduction in Q4 and about $0.15 to $0.20 reduction for the full year from the net impact of our Q3 refinancing actions.

We project a full-year adjusted free cash flow margin of 18% to 19%. Looking further ahead, I would also like to provide a brief update on our 2026 outlook. While we will provide more fulsome details on 2026 expectations during our earnings call in February, we have already begun to put the foundations in place to further accelerate growth.

Given our momentum and the increased visibility into demand on the back of several recent customer wins, we have committed investment in additional data centers and GPU capacity that will come online over the course of 2026 that will accelerate growth ahead of our previously communicated timeline. We have signed leases for approximately 30 megawatts of incremental data center capacity across several new data centers that will commence over the course of 2026.

These new data centers and our corresponding investments in incremental GPU capacity will enable us to comfortably deliver 18% to 20% growth in 2026, achieving our 2027 revenue growth targets a full year earlier than we had projected. And while our COGS and operating expenses will increase in early 2026 as we ramp into our new data center capacity, we anticipate delivering high 30s to 40% adjusted EBITDA margins while maintaining mid- to high-teens adjusted free cash flow margin.

We also remain committed to maintaining a healthy balance sheet, and we anticipate that our net leverage will end 2026 in the mid-3s range, including the impact on net debt from any incremental lease-up. We look forward to sharing more on the traction we are getting with our unified agentic cloud, the growth we are seeing from our highest spending customers, the investments we are making to further accelerate growth and our outlook for 2026 and beyond when we get together again in February.

That concludes our prepared remarks, and we will now open the call to Q&A.