DocuSign, Inc. (DOCU) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 4, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Matt Sonefeldt - Head of Investor Relations
Allan Thygesen - President, CEO & Director
Blake Grayson - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Jacob Roberge - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Tyler Radke - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Mark Murphy - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Peter Burkly - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Brent Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Scott Berg - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Bradley Sills - BofA Securities, Research Division
Lucas Cerisola - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Austin Cole - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Aleksandr Zukin - Wolfe Research, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining DocuSign's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor Relations section of the website following the call. [Operator Instructions]

I will now pass the call over to Matt Sonefeldt, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Matt Sonefeldt
Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, and welcome to DocuSign's Q3 Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. Joining me on today's call are DocuSign's CEO, Allan Thygesen; and CFO, Blake Grayson.

The press release announcing our third quarter fiscal 2026 results was issued earlier today and is posted on our Investor Relations website, along with a published version of our prepared remarks.

Before we begin, let me remind everyone that some of our statements on today's call are forward-looking, including any statements regarding future performance. We believe our assumptions and expectations related to these forward-looking statements are reasonable, but they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results or performance to be materially different. In particular, our expectations regarding factors affecting customer demand and adoption are based on our best estimates at this time and are therefore subject to change. Please read and consider the risk factors in our filings with the SEC, together with the content of this call.

Any forward-looking statements are based on our assumptions and expectations to date. And except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these statements in light of future events or new information. During this call, we will present GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. In addition, we provide non-GAAP weighted average share count and information regarding free cash flows and billings. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from, a substitute for or superior to our GAAP results. We encourage you to consider all measures when analyzing our performance. For information regarding our non-GAAP financial information, the most directly comparable GAAP measures and a quantitative reconciliation of those figures, please refer to today's earnings press release, which can be found on our website at investor.docusign.com.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Allan.

Allan Thygesen
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Matt, and good afternoon, everyone. Q3 was a standout quarter for DocuSign. We delivered one of the higher growth quarters over the past 2 years, driven by continued customer investment in core products and the Intelligent Agreement Management, or IAM, platform.

Revenue was $818 million, up 8% year-over-year, and billings were $829 million, up 10% year-over-year. Our ongoing commitment to operational efficiency once again delivered strong profitability, with a non-GAAP operating margin of 31%. Free cash flow grew 25% year-over-year to $263 million and a 32% margin, supporting $215 million in share repurchases, our largest quarterly buyback to date.

We're executing effectively across our 3 strategic pillars: meeting growing demand for Docusign IAM and eSignature with an improving go-to-market motion, maintaining the rapid pace of platform evolution and AI innovation and driving greater operational efficiency. We remain focused on our long-term goal to deliver sustainable, profitable double-digit growth.

Let's start with our go-to-market motion, which has been instrumental in driving IAM's growth across commercial and enterprise customer segments. By the end of Q3, more than 25,000 paying direct and digital customers had adopted IAM, up for more than 10,000 in April. We remain on pace for IAM to represent a low double-digit percentage of recurring revenue at year-end.

We're also encouraged by the early strong retention rates in our first IAM renewal cohorts as well as the continued trend of IAM customers increasing their eSignature usage after moving to the IAM platform.

IAM is a system of record that enables customers of all sizes to ingest a vast, complex body of agreements into a single repository, build agreement workflows that operate at scale and take action on high-accuracy insights from agreement data.

IAM builds on a track record of enterprise customers working with DocuSign to realize a 75% faster contracting cycle and an 81% improvement in document turnaround time. That value resonates with customers across all segments. One of DocuSign's top 10 customers became our second largest this quarter through a multimillion dollar commitment to IAM.

In the commercial space, Perceptyx, which provides an AI-powered employee experience platform, generates new documents in 99% less time, while the administrative offices in San Miguel County in Colorado have cut agreement finalization time by 96%.

The broader eSignature business also performed well in Q3. Dollar net retention improved by 2 percentage points year-over-year to 102%, continuing to benefit from steady demand and sales-driven execution. eSignature customers continue to increase overall usage, with utilization rates at multiyear highs and consistent positive growth in envelopes sent.

New York Life, the largest neutral life insurance company in the U.S., streamlined critical end-to-end workflows for agents and millions of policyholders by integrating eSignature with Salesforce, and now has 65% of all customer agreements signed within just a few hours.

DocuSign CLM remains a top choice for enterprise customers with sophisticated workflows and it will become even more valuable as we integrate CLM with DocuSign Navigator, our intelligent repository and other IAM features. In Q3, DocuSign was also named a leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for CLM for the sixth year in a row.

Also, international revenue showed sustained growth and is now approximately 30% of our overall business for the first time. Our sales efforts continue to support international expansion and in Q3, we hosted Momentum events for customers and partners in Sydney, Singapore and Tokyo. This year's Momentum series drew 3x as many attendees in 2024, reflecting growing interest in IAM.

Across all segments and geographies, we're deepening our solution-selling motion. Greater engagement and stronger customer relationships help deliver the business resilience and consistency we've seen over the last 2 quarters.

Turning to product innovation, we're rapidly adding new features to IAM, as DocuSign matures from a single product company into the category-leading platform in agreement management. Earlier this week, we launched Agreement Desk, an internal central workspace that keep teams aligned so agreements are processed faster, and our first AI contract agents now in beta.

Agreement management is a $2 trillion global market problem, and over the past 18 months, we've helped tens of thousands of customers begin to solve it. From the beginning, a key part of our IAM platform vision has involved combining a decade of in-house AI experience with leading third-party innovation.

We believe IAM excels in several key areas. First, unmatched proprietary data. Models trained on the best data deliver the best, most accurate results to customers. One of DocuSign's biggest differentiators is our enormous library of consented, private agreements, covering a wide variety of contract types, clauses, customer segments, languages and verticals. We estimate that by training IAM on this rich body of private data, we can achieve a 15 percentage point improvement in precision and recall compared to our models trained on public contract data. On a 100-point scale, a 15-point jump in accuracy is a game-changer, especially when managing business-critical workflows and legal contracts.

When customers adopt IAM, their eSignature documents are automatically available in Navigator, and they can include virtually any other agreements as well. To date, we have approximately 150 million opted-in customer agreements ingested into Navigator, including 20 million in October alone, up approximately 140% over the past 2 quarters. Our average new IAM customer has over 5,000 active contracts.

Second, an unrivaled ecosystem. DocuSign has more than 1,000 third-party integrations and enterprise-ready APIs that connect the agreement process directly into the core business systems that customers already use. In Q3, we expanded our ecosystem by adding new AI tools and platforms. At our annual DocuSign Discover developer conference in October, we announced that IAM will be available in ChatGPT and can also connect to Anthropic Claude, Gemini Enterprise, GitHub Copilot, Copilot Studio and Agentforce, all using the Model Context Protocol, or MCP, server that's currently in beta. At Discover, we also launched APIs that enable customers to connect Navigator and Maestro to third-party systems and proprietary internal apps.

In October, at Dreamforce, we received a Salesforce Partner Innovation Award in the tech category for our DocuSign for Agentforce solution, which accelerates deal velocity by surfacing agentic action and AI-powered agreement insights inside of Agentforce. The expansion of our ecosystem partnerships and native integrations reinforces our position as the essential agreement layer across the enterprise.

And third, trustworthy AI at an enterprise scale. Our largest customers have millions of agreements in Navigator, and our AI models are designed to handle hundreds of millions of agreements efficiently. In addition to scalability, customers tell us that trust is paramount when deploying AI to manage sensitive agreement information. In a recent DocuSign survey, 70% of professionals said they trust a dedicated enterprise contract AI solution over a general purpose model for handling agreements.

IAM draws on DocuSign's years long track record of delivering highly secure solutions for some of the world's most security-conscious companies, and meeting stringent standards of compliance, data security and privacy protection. In Q3, IAM achieved FedRAMP Moderate and GovRAMP authorization, and we expanded our identity portfolio by launching CLEAR and Risk-Based Verification. For 2 years in a row, Newsweek has named DocuSign the most trustworthy software company in the U.S.

In closing, our innovation is turning into outcomes for our commercial enterprise customers, who are realizing IAM's growing value in boosting productivity, saving time and money and transforming their businesses. We're honored that in Q3, DocuSign's AI innovation garnered recognition on the 2025 Fortune Future 50 list, which celebrates companies with the greatest long-term growth prospects and the Inc. Power Partners Awards for companies that have proven track records supporting entrepreneurs and helping startups grow.

I'd like to thank the entire DocuSign team for their commitment to putting our nearly 1.8 million customers first as we drive the evolution of the category-leading intelligent agreement management platform. IAM Momentum continues to build, and we are focused on pursuing the vast opportunity ahead.

With that, let me turn it over to Blake.

Blake Grayson
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Allan, and good afternoon, everyone.

Q3 results demonstrated another quarter of resiliency, with consistent overall growth in IAM demand momentum. We also continued to generate strong operating profitability and cash flow and translated that performance into our single largest quarterly dollar buyback in the company's history.

In Q3, total revenue was $818 million, up 8% year-over-year, and subscription revenue was $801 million, up 9% year-over-year. Revenue outperformance was driven by modest sales driven strength. Q3 billings were $829 million, up 10% year-over-year. Revenue and billings had small foreign currency benefits of approximately 50 basis points year-over-year.

Billings outperformance was primarily driven by 2 elements. The first was renewal timing and early renewal strength, which drove slightly more than half of the outperformance in Q3. Similar to Q2, we saw slightly higher early renewals than forecasted. Importantly, the quality of those early renewals continued to improve year-over-year as a percentage of early renewals with expansion grew and the share of early renewals that were flat, declined.

The second element was a collection of smaller impacts, including a small shift in payment frequency to annual bookings performance and slight FX favorability.

When removing the impact from timing relative to our forecast, billings growth for Q3 was approximately 8% year-over-year. As a reminder, we also saw elevated early renewal activity in the second half of fiscal 2025, creating a more difficult year-over-year billings comparison in Q3 and Q4 of this year.

A consistent theme in our quarterly billings results has been that renewal timing can create significant variability in billings as a reporting metric. This quarter, we are previewing 3 future disclosure updates that will take effect in our Q4 2026 earnings call in March. These updates reflect investor feedback, and our primary goals are to provide better transparency in measuring both our long-term growth rate and IAM's role as a growth driver as well as to focus on the underlying dynamics of growth in our business rather than those affected by timing. Please see Slide 28 in our Q3 earnings deck for a full summary of the changes.

First, at the end of every fiscal year, starting this Q4 2026, we will disclose annual recurring revenue, or ARR, including historical data for recent years. We will also provide full year ARR growth guidance for fiscal 2027, which we will update quarterly during our first, second and third quarters.

Second, we will also introduce IAM as a percentage of ARR as a quarterly reporting metric beginning in Q4 of 2026. Consistent with the approach in fiscal 2026, we will also provide guidance in fiscal 2027 for the approximate year-end IAM percentage of ARR to create greater transparency into IAM's anticipated contribution to total growth.

Finally, as previously discussed, we will no longer report billings in fiscal 2027. This quarter will be the last quarter we provide billings guidance, and Q4 of 2026 will be the last quarter we report non-GAAP billings and reconciliations in earnings materials and SEC filings. We believe replacing billings as a reporting metric with ARR metrics will improve investor understanding of how DocuSign is managing its long-term growth trajectory and minimize quarter-to-quarter timing volatility in our reporting.

One question we anticipate is why not report ARR on a quarterly basis? The reason is that our quarterly net new ARR, as it is relatively small compared to our book of business, is subject to timing volatility similar or even more pronounced than quarterly billings and can be highly volatile on a year-over-year basis.

For example, in fiscal 2026, we are forecasting to add approximately $240 million in net new subscription revenue or around $60 million on average per quarter. With that small of an absolute figure, slight timing fluctuations on deals can have large growth rate impacts. Similar to billings, these timing fluctuations can detract from the insight that ARR provides along with our aspiration to focus on accelerating our long-term growth. Our goal through providing annual ARR guidance, updated each quarter, along with quarterly IAM disclosures, is to provide a full transparent picture of that growth.

In Q3, we continued to see a strong and resilient business. The dollar net retention rate, or DNR, was 102%, up from 100% in the prior year and consistent with the 102% in Q2 of fiscal 2026. DNR stability is supported by improving consumption, a measure of envelope utilization, which is amongst the highest levels we have seen since early fiscal 2022. Also, the volume of envelopes sent in Q3 continued to increase at a consistent year-over-year rate as compared to prior quarters. The fundamentals in our business remain solid.

For IAM, in Q3, we surpassed 25,000 direct and digital customers on our IAM platform, up from 10,000, which we shared in April. We continue to be encouraged by IAM customers' financial profile with the first early renewal cohorts showing a gross retention rate several percentage points higher than our corporate average. We remain on track for IAM to contribute a low double-digit percentage share of the subscription book of business exiting Q4.

For the first time, international revenue reached approximately 30% of total revenue and grew 14% year-over-year, accelerating slightly from the prior quarter. In Q3, total customers grew 9% year-over-year, ending the quarter at nearly 1.8 million. Growth in customers spending over $300,000 annually accelerated to 8% year-over-year to 1,165 in Q3. This is the highest quarterly growth in over 2 years for this metric, as the solution-selling motion with larger customers continues to improve following Q1's go-to-market changes.

Turning to our financials. Our focus on operating efficiency continued to yield strong results this quarter. Non-GAAP gross margin for Q3 was 81.8%, down 70 basis points versus the prior year due primarily to the cloud migration transition costs we've discussed throughout the year.

We delivered non-GAAP operating income in Q3 of $257 million. Operating margin was 31.4%, up nearly 2 percentage points versus last year, mostly attributable to higher revenue, continued cost discipline and some savings from onetime expense items. We had approximately 1.5 percentage points of margin benefit from onetime and timing-related savings in Q3, without which our operating margin would have been approximately 30%. We ended Q3 with 6,940 employees, up modestly versus 6,838 at fiscal 2025 year-end. This reflects our measured approach to hiring in fiscal 2026 to support our strategic initiatives while maintaining efficiency.

In Q3, we generated $263 million of free cash flow, a 32% margin, up over 4 percentage points versus the prior year. This strength was better than we expected, driven primarily by higher-than-expected collections efficiency, higher in-quarter billings and lower expenses.

Our balance sheet is strong. We ended the quarter with approximately $1 billion of cash, cash equivalents and investments. We have no debt on the balance sheet. In Q3, we increased the pace of our buyback activity and repurchased $215 million in shares. This is our single largest quarterly dollar buyback in the company's history as we redeployed the majority of our quarterly free cash flow to shareholders. We will continue to opportunistically repurchase shares with over $1 billion in remaining buyback authorization. While the pace of this activity may fluctuate quarter-to-quarter, share repurchases underscore our commitment to returning excess capital to shareholders.

Non-GAAP diluted EPS for Q3 was $1.01, up from $0.90 last year. GAAP diluted EPS was $0.40 versus $0.30 last year.

With that, let me turn to guidance. For the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2026, we expect total revenue of $825 million to $829 million in Q4 or a 7% year-over-year increase at the midpoint and $3.208 billion to $3.212 billion for fiscal 2026 or an 8% year-over-year increase at the midpoint. Of this, we expect subscription revenue of $808 million to $812 million in Q4 or a 7% year-over-year increase at the midpoint and $3.140 billion to $3.144 billion for fiscal 2026 or an 8% year-over-year increase at the midpoint.

For billings, we expect $992 million to $1.002 billion in Q4 or an 8% growth rate year-over-year at the midpoint and $3.379 billion to $3.389 billion for fiscal 2026 or growth of 9% year-over-year at the midpoint.

Our updated full year top line guidance reflects the following dynamics present in our business and the external environment: For full year revenue, the annual guidance midpoint is increasing by $15 million from last quarter's full year guidance. The majority of the increase is driven by Q3 outperformance and the expectation that some of these trends will continue to the fiscal year-end.

For full year billings, the annual guidance midpoint is increasing by $44 million from last quarter's full year guidance. This increase reflects a portion of the non-timing impact from Q3 business strength.

As a reminder, both full year revenue and billings have hard year-over-year comparisons against last year's higher volume of early renewals, particularly in the second half of the year.

Revenue growth also has a hard year-over-year comparison against strength from last year's PLG initiatives, including high volumes of digital customers adding envelope capacity as a result of improved self-service flows as described a year ago.

For profitability, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be between 80.8% to 81.2% for Q4 and between 81.7% and 81.8% for fiscal 2026. We expect non-GAAP operating margin to reach 28.3% to 28.7% for Q4 and 29.8% to 29.9% for fiscal 2026.

For the full year, we included the following 2 considerations in our non-GAAP profitability guidance: For gross margin, we expect approximately 1 percentage point of headwind year-over-year from our ongoing cloud data center migration efforts in Q4. For full year fiscal 2026, we expect our top line strength and continued cost discipline to partially offset cloud migration costs and expect an approximately 50 basis point year-over-year decline on margins. We continue to expect a gradual easing in migration cost impacts in fiscal 2027 and beyond.

For operating margins, we expect to achieve flat year-over-year operating margins for fiscal 2026, a strong reflection of our continued cost discipline. This strength offsets the margin pressures we've described throughout the year, including the impact of cloud migration, the shift of some roles to cash compensation from equity and the comp against onetime professional fee savings last year in Q2 of 2025.

In Q4, we also have a small timing-related headwind from onetime costs pushed to Q4 from Q3. As a reminder, in Q3, we had approximately 1.5 percentage points of margin benefit from onetime and timing-related savings.

We expect non-GAAP fully diluted weighted average shares outstanding of 203 million to 208 million for Q4 and 208 million to 211 million for fiscal 2026. Please see the modeling consideration slides in our Q3 earnings deck for a full summary of guidance context.

In summary, this quarter highlighted DocuSign's commitment to our core strategic priorities and operational road map, driving product innovation, enhancing our go-to-market motions and continuously improving efficiencies across the business. Our focus on both consistent growth and financial discipline will remain the guidepost for maximizing customer, employee and shareholder value.

That concludes our prepared remarks. With that, operator, let's open the call for questions.