DTE Energy Company (DTE) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 30, 2025 8:30 AM EDT

Company Participants

Matt Krupinski - Director of Investor Relations
Joi Harris - President, CEO & Director
David Ruud - Vice Chairman & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Shahriar Pourreza - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Aidan Kelly - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Julien Dumoulin-Smith - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
David Arcaro - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
William Appicelli - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Michael Sullivan - Wolfe Research, LLC
Andrew Weisel - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Anthony Crowdell - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Paul Fremont - Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. Inc., Research Division
Agnieszka Storozynski - Seaport Research Partners
Travis Miller - Morningstar Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and thank you for standing by. My name is Bella, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to DTE Energy Q3 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions].

I would now like to turn the conference over to Matt Krupinski, Director of Investor Relations. You may...

Matt Krupinski
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Before we get started, I'd like to remind you to read the safe harbor statement on Page 2 of the presentation, including the reference to forward-looking statements. Our presentation also includes references to operating earnings, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Please refer to the reconciliation of GAAP earnings to operating earnings provided in the appendix.

With us this morning are Joi Harris, President and CEO; and Dave Ruud, CFO. And now I'll turn it over to Joi to start our call this morning.

Joi Harris
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Matt. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. While this is my first time leading our earnings call as CEO, I've had the privilege of engaging with many of you over the past couple of years and appreciate the dialogue. I'm off to a running start and continuing to build on the strong foundation we've established.

I have a number of exciting updates to share with you today, which include highlighting the progress we're making on achieving our 2025 financial goals, providing a strong 2026 operating EPS outlook and outlining our enhanced 5-year plan that now extends through 2030.

A highlight of our strategy is the transformational growth we're seeing in data center demand. I am pleased to announce we finalized an agreement with a leading hyperscaler to support 1.4 gigawatts of data center loads. This is an exciting milestone that I'll expand on as we walk through our updated strategic plan.

Aside from the 1.4 gigawatts of new load, we are still in late-stage negotiations with an additional 3 gigawatts of data center load providing potential further upside to our capital plan as we advance these negotiations.

As a result of this first data center transaction and continued need to modernize our utility assets, our updated plan includes significant increases in utility investments for our customers and deliver 6% to 8% operating EPS growth through 2030.

We are confident we will reach the high end of our targeted range in each year, driven by R&D tax credits and the flexibility they provide. This plan supports our continued strategic shift toward higher-quality utility earnings fueled by increased demand, continues our efforts to build the grid of the future while transitioning to a cleaner generation and demonstrates our ongoing commitment to affordability for our customers.

I will share additional details of our plan over the next few slides. Dave will give an overview of our third quarter results, 2025 guidance and 2026 early outlook, and then we will open it up for your questions.

I'll start on Slide 4 by saying that we are continuing to deliver strong results in 2025 and we are well positioned to hit the high end of the guidance this year. As always, our success is a testament to our dedicated and engaged team committed to serving our customers and communities. I am extremely proud that our team was recognized by the Gallup organization for the 13th consecutive year with A Great Workplace Award and our employee engagement ranks in the 94 percentile globally among thousands of organizations.

We are well positioned to achieve the high end of our 2025 operating EPS guidance range. Looking ahead to 2026, our early outlook reflects operating EPS growth of 6% to 8% over our 2025 guidance midpoint, and we are confident in our ability to deliver at the higher end of that range.

Let me move to Slide 5 to provide more details on our long-term plan. We are in an exciting time for our industry and for DTE and we are focused on seizing the opportunity to deliver for our customers, communities and investors. We're increasing our 5-year capital investment plan by $6.5 billion compared to the prior plan, driven by the data center transaction and the continued need to modernize our utility assets. At DTE Electric, the additional investments are strategically focused to support data center low growth, advanced cleaner generation and to enhance distribution infrastructure that will drive continued improvements in reliability.

DTE Gas is focused on system reliability and infrastructure renewal, ensuring safe, efficient service for our customers while modernizing our network. DTE Vantage will continue to prioritize investments in utility-like long-term fixed-fee contracted projects, which aligns well with our strategy to deliver stable, predictable earnings for our investors.

Our investment plan supports a further strategic shift towards higher-quality utility earnings over the next 5 years, targeting utility operating earnings to increase to 93% of our overall earnings by 2030. Importantly, data center opportunities are helping drive this shift as we allocate additional capital to serve this load, which further supports affordability for our existing customers.

We have incorporated a more conservative growth outlook for DTE Vantage, which is largely influenced by commodity pricing assumptions in our longer-term forecast. As part of our most recent strategic analysis, we evaluated a range of pathways to drive sustainable long-term value.

This effort reinforced our conviction that leaning into our core utility business, while taking a more conservative view at DTE Vantage will best position us to deliver value for our customers and for our investors. As you can see in the appendix of this presentation, the 2030 outlook for Vantage is flat to 2025 guidance. As our solid project development pipeline offset the expected roll-off of 45Z production tax credits after 2029.

We're confident this approach also positions us well for consistent future growth as we expect to continue to make progress on additional data center opportunities that will deliver upside to our base plan.

Let me move to Slide 6 to highlight updates to our capital plan at DTE Electric. Our updated capital investment plan at DTE Electric provides a $6 billion increase over the prior plan driven by the data center transaction and customer-focused initiatives that align with our long-term strategy. A key component of this plan is new storage investment to support the increased data center load. Importantly, this incremental storage investment is fully funded by the data center customers.

The plan also includes renewable investments that support the continued success of our MIGreenPower voluntary renewables program and fulfill the requirements of the legislated clean energy plan. And to ensure reliable baseload generation as we transition away from coal, we are planning the construction of a combined cycle gas turbine to replace our retiring coal plants.

We are submitting a competitive bid for the 2026 integrated resource plan, All-Source RFP for a new CCGT to replace Monroe Power Plant. We're also continuing to invest in distribution infrastructure to harden the grid and improve reliability for our customers. These grid investments are already delivering results, driving a nearly 90% improvement in the duration of outages since 2023 as we make strong progress toward our goal of reducing power outages by 30% and cutting outage time in half by 2029.

Our current rate case filing supports these reliability investments while remaining focused on customer affordability. This filing includes a request for approximately $1 billion in distribution spending to be included in the infrastructure recovery mechanism by 2029, which was largely supported by the MPSC staff in its recent testimony.

The IRM will help drive consistent, predictable investments in grid modernization to improve reliability for our customers, while also simplifying future regulatory proceedings. The order for this case is expected at the end of February.

Overall, I'm thrilled about the opportunities ahead for DTE Electric. As we continue our efforts to improve reliability for our customers, transition to cleaner generation and execute on economic development opportunities to drive low growth and support affordability for our customers.

Let me move to Slide 7 to provide an update on our advancement of data center opportunities. As I mentioned, we successfully executed a significant agreement to support 1.4 gigawatts of new data center load, representing a major step forward in our utility growth strategy while also delivering meaningful affordability benefits to our existing customers.

The demand is expected to ramp up over the next 2 to 3 years, giving us a clear runway to align infrastructure development and resource planning with customer needs. While we can use existing capacity to support this ramp, we'll also need to invest in new energy storage solutions to meet the full capacity requirements. Our updated plan includes nearly $2 billion of incremental energy storage investments and additional tolling agreements to support this data center load.

Given our excess capacity, we will use our existing industrial tariff for this customer and combine it with an energy storage contract to support the incremental storage investment. We are including key terms in these agreements that will protect existing customers, including a 19-year power supply contract with minimum monthly charges.

The data center will fund its own storage needs through a 15-year energy storage contract. These terms are important to us and our customers as we ensure the data center revenue supports the required investment to meet this new demand. We plan to submit our regulatory filing tomorrow requesting approval of the data center contract.

Energy storage investments will begin ramping in 2026 to align with the projected increase in data center load. As I mentioned, we also have additional data center opportunities beyond this initial 1.4 gigawatts. We are in advanced discussions with additional hyperscalers for over 3 gigawatts of new load, and we have a pipeline of an additional 3 to 4 gigawatts behind that.

We also expect longer-term growth opportunities through the expansion of these initial hyperscaler projects. The generation investments that will be needed to support these additional opportunities could very well come into the back end of our 5-year plan, providing incremental capital investments above what we are laying out for you today.

A key step in preparing for the development of new generation to support large data center loads is integrating these requirements into our next IRP filing, which we expect to file next year. So a lot of great opportunities ahead of us on the data center front. We will continue to provide updates along the way as things progress.

Let me move to Slide 8 to discuss our commitment to customer affordability. We have a history of executing on our investment plan with a sharp focus on customer affordability. As you can see on the chart, our average annual bill increase over the last 4 years is significantly lower than the national average and Great Lakes average. We remain committed to maintaining this focus on affordability throughout our plan.

We are advancing on a number of initiatives to support affordability for our customers while continuing to invest and support our key priority. Importantly, near-term data center growth will help create substantial affordability headroom for our existing customers as we sell our excess generation. Our continuous improvement culture will ensure O&M and capital investments remain efficient.

The shift from coal to natural gas and renewables also helped to further reduce O&M costs while our diverse energy mix ensures economic fuel costs for our customers. And finally, the IRA provisions support the renewable energy investments while supporting customer affordability goals.

So to wrap up my comments, I'll say I'm very excited about our long-term plan and the opportunities we have ahead of us to continue to deliver for all of our stakeholders, including excellent service to our customers and communities and continued strong financial performance for our investors. I'm looking forward to spending more time with many of you at EEI to discuss our updated plan.

With that, I'll hand it over to Dave. Over to you, Dave.

David Ruud
Vice Chairman & CFO

Thanks, Joi, and good morning, everyone. Let me start on Slide 9 to review our third quarter financial results. Operating earnings for the quarter were $468 million. This translates into $2.25 per share. You can find a detailed breakdown of EPS by segment, including our reconciliation to GAAP reported earnings in the appendix. I'll start the review at the top of the page with our utilities.

DTE Electric earnings were $541 million for the quarter. Earnings were $104 million higher than the third quarter of 2024. The main drivers of the variance were timing of taxes and rate implementation, partially offset by higher O&M and rate base costs. The impact from the timing of tax for the quarter was fairly significant at $63 million favorable relative to third quarter 2024. This is due to the timing of investment tax credits associated with when our solar projects are placed in service.

This timing was known and built into our plan and the remaining year-to-date timing favorability of $33 million relative to 2024 will reverse in the fourth quarter. Moving on to DTE Gas. Operating earnings were unfavorable $38 million, which is $25 million lower than the third quarter of 2024. The earnings variance was primarily driven by higher O&M and rate base costs.

With our confidence that we will hit the top end of our overall DTE operating EPS guidance range this year, we've been able to unwind onetime lean operational measures and other unsustainable reductions that were implemented over the past few years at DTE Gas to counteract warmer weather. This will likely bring this segment in below its guidance range in 2025.

Let me move to DTE Vantage on the third row. Operating earnings were $41 million for the third quarter of 2025. This is an $8 million increase from 2024, driven by RNG production tax credits in 2025, partially offset by lower steel-related revenues. We remain on track for the full year guidance at DTE Vantage. On the next row, you can see Energy Trading earned $23 million for the quarter. We continue to experience strong margins in our contracted and hedged physical power and gas portfolios. On a year-to-date basis, we are currently above the high end of operating earnings guidance for this segment. This strong performance places us in a favorable position to leverage any potential further upside across DTE to continue to provide flexibility for future years.

Finally, Corporate and Other was unfavorable by $77 million quarter-over-quarter due primarily to the timing of taxes, which will reverse by year-end as well as higher interest expense. Overall, DTE earned $2.25 per share in the third quarter of 2025, which positions us well to achieve the high end of our guidance range in 2025. Let's move on to Slide 10 to discuss our 2026 outlook.

As Joi mentioned, we are well positioned to deliver another strong year in 2026. Our 2026 early outlook range, $7.59 per share to $7.73 per share, which provides 6% to 8% growth over our 2025 guidance midpoint. And we are confident that we will deliver at the high end of the guidance range due to the flexibility that the 45Z tax credits provide. Utility growth will be driven by customer-focused investments, including distribution and cleaner generation investments at DTE Electric and main renewal and other infrastructure improvements at DTE Gas.

DTE Vantage will see growth from the development of new custom energy solutions projects and continued contributions from RNG production tax credits. And at Energy Trading, we continue to see strength in both our structured physical power and physical gas portfolios, giving us confidence in our targets as we head into 2026. We will share additional details on 2026 during our fourth quarter call following the close of a strong 2025.

Let's turn to Slide 11 to discuss our balance sheet and equity issuance plan. We continue to focus on maintaining solid balance sheet metrics. To support the significant increase to our capital investment plan that we need to execute for our customers, we've increased our planned equity issuances. We are targeting annual issuances of $500 million to $600 million in 2026 through 2028.

This level of equity supports the capital that is now coming earlier in this plan relative to our prior plan. The increased equity will help fund the increase in our capital plan, including the storage investments related to our data center agreement while ensuring that we maintain a strong balance sheet. We will continue to maximize the use of internal mechanisms to issue equity, but will also incorporate manageable external issuances.

Our 5-year plan fully incorporates the equity needs and continues to deliver 6% to 8% operating EPS growth with a bias toward the upper end each year through 2030. Our long-term plan also includes debt refinancing and new debt issuances. We expect to strategically utilize hybrid securities to support our financing plan, and we will continue to manage future debt issuances through interest rate hedging and other opportunities.

Importantly, we continue to focus on maintaining our strong investment-grade credit rating and solid balance sheet metrics as we target an FFO to debt ratio of approximately 15%. This plan ensures that DTE continues to be well positioned to make the necessary investments for our customers while delivering the premium total shareholder returns that our investors have come to expect over the past decade with strong utility growth and a dividend growing with operating EPS.

Let me wrap up on Slide 12, and then we will open the line for questions. Our team continues our commitment to deliver for all of our stakeholders. We are delivering solid results in 2025. We are on track to achieve the high end of our operating EPS guidance range, and we are confident we will achieve the high end of our 2026 early outlook, again, due to the flexibility that the 45Z tax credits provide.

Our updated 5-year plan provides high-quality long-term 6% to 8% EPS growth through increased customer-focused utility investment, which increases our utility operating earnings to 93% of our overall earnings by 2030. This plan increases our 5-year capital investment by $6.5 billion over the previous plan, supported by the data center transaction and the continued need to modernize our utility assets.

Additional data center opportunities provide potential upside to this 5-year capital investment and EPS growth plan. We continue to target 6% to 8% long-term operating EPS growth with 2026 operating EPS midpoint as a base for this growth. We are confident that we will reach the high end of our target range in each year, driven by RNG tax credits and the flexibility they provide. We continue to target a strong dividend that grows with operating EPS.

Overall, we are well positioned to deliver the premium total shareholder returns that our investors have come to expect with a strong balance sheet that supports our capital investment plan. With that, thank you for joining us today and look forward to seeing many of you at EEI.

We can open the line for questions.