Brinker International, Inc. (EAT) Q1 2026 Earnings Call October 29, 2025 10:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Kim Sanders - Vice President of Investor & Government Relations
Kevin Hochman - President, CEO & Director
Mika Ware - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Christopher O'Cull - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
David Palmer - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
John Ivankoe - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Jeffrey Farmer - Gordon Haskett Research Advisors
Dennis Geiger - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Hyun Jin Cho - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Sara Senatore - BofA Securities, Research Division
Andrew Strelzik - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Brian Vaccaro - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Jon Tower - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Brian Harbour - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Alexander Slagle - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Margaret-May Binshtok
James Sanderson - Northcoast Research Partners, LLC

Presentation

Kim Sanders
Vice President of Investor & Government Relations

Thank you, Paul, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on today's call. Here with me today are Kevin Hochman, President and Chief Executive Officer and President of Chili's; and Mika Ware, Chief Financial Officer. Results for our first quarter were released earlier this morning and are available on our website at brinker.com. As usual, Kevin and Mika will first make prepared comments related to our strategic initiatives and operating performance. Then we will open the call for your questions.

Before beginning our comments, I would like to remind everyone of our safe harbor regarding forward-looking statements. During our call, management may discuss certain items, which are not based entirely on historical facts. Any such items should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Such risks and uncertainties include factors more completely described in this morning's press release and the company's filings with the SEC.

And of course, on the call, we may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that management uses in its review of the business and believes will provide insight into the company's ongoing operations.

And with that said, I will turn the call over to Kevin.

Kevin Hochman
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Kim, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us as we share insights from our first quarter and our outlook for the remainder of fiscal '26. Q1 Chili's same-store sales were plus 21.4%, outperforming the casual dining industry by 1,650 basis points. This strong result was lapping a plus 14% in Q1 last year for a 2-year compounded comp of plus 39%.

Our Q1 sales result was driven by traffic increases of 13% versus a year ago, and Chili's has now beat the industry the past 8 quarters on traffic as well as completed our 18th consecutive quarter of positive same-store sales growth. I'm so proud of our Chili's team rolling industry-leading comps from Q1 last year with even more industry-leading comps in Q1 this year. World-class marketing and brand building is bringing guests in and continued improvements in food service and atmosphere are bringing guests back, and that momentum feels great.

Our food and hospitality initiatives in Q1 continue to deliver momentum for the business. The ribs upgrade has been a success with the ribs business now running 35% up in sales and significantly improved profitability, which is also up 29%. Food grade scores on tickets with ribs are up and guest feedback has been very positive on the taste. On the beverage innovation front, the frozen Patrón Margaritas platform is now selling 2x the units of the old platform despite a higher price point for the more premium ingredients. Q1 new items are winning and helping progress our food grade scores in addition to growing sales.

On the hospitality side, ongoing simplification, removing friction from our team members and managers and the North of 6 initiatives are continuing to improve guest experience scores. Our main metric for experience guests with a problem is again at an all-time low at 2.1% versus 2.7% last year in Q1, with food grade and intensity return scores also at all-time highs.

And on atmosphere, our first 4 remodel pilot restaurants should be completed by the end of this quarter, and we will start getting a read on how they are performing. The modern Greenville prototype is about making a Chili's as Chili's a Chili's can be by going back to the first Chili's ever built on Greenville Avenue and getting back to what makes Chili's like no place else.

Given what everyone is seeing in the industry right now, I thought it would be helpful to talk a little bit more insight on what we're seeing at Chili's with the consumer. I'm going to share what we are seeing with the consumer household income levels and some new token data on Chili's guest behavior. Chili's continues to grow sales across all households of all income levels. And while others in the restaurant industry are seeing households with lower income pull back, we are seeing just the opposite.

Our customer base is very representative of the U.S. consumer across all income cohorts, but our cohort growing the fastest is actually now households with income under $60,000. It's clear that the better than fast food campaign we've been hammering over the past 2 years has positioned Chili's as an important value leader in the industry, and we are gaining market share with low-income households while others are reporting softness with that group.

I also wanted to share some new capability mined from our tokenized data. We now have sufficient data to understand as more and more new guests come into Chili's, what is happening to the guest frequency over time. The intent is to have a better understanding of the sustainability of guest traffic we are bringing into the business via TV and social advertising. We track each group of monthly customers separately and what their visitation and purchase behavior is over time.

For example, we have a July 2024 cohort who represents all of the guests that came into Chili's during the month of July 2024, whether they are new to Chili's or regular guests, and we can track how often they have come back over time. We can do the same analysis with the guests who came in, in August 2024 and get the same data about that group. We then look at frequency of those groups over time to understand how well we are retaining them, which also tells us how sustainable Chili's traffic trends are.

So here's what we learned tracking monthly cohorts. For both new and regular guests, trip frequency is staying very stable regardless of the cohort. What this means is our restaurant experience is bringing guests back and retaining the traffic over time versus bringing them in once and having them not come back to Chili's. This data, along with our quarter-to-date sales and traffic trends, give us confidence we'll be able to roll over the Q2 plus 31.4% sales growth and the plus 19.9% traffic growth from prior year.

Now I want to give an update on Maggiano's. Chief Operating Officer, Rich Kissel and I have had the opportunity to go deeper into the business, and we have a better understanding of the opportunity to get Maggiano's stabilized and growing again. The turnaround starts with a better understanding of Maggiano's positioning. which when it was growing at its best, was about abundant and scratch-made Italian American favorites with warm and attentive service and then putting those pieces in place to deliver on that positioning consistently.

The back to Maggiano's plan has 4 pillars: getting back to classic recipes and scratch-made Maggiano's guest favorites with the abundance that differentiates Maggiano's, improving service levels and speed of service through new labor deployment and simplification as well as the elimination of tests that don't benefit the teammate or the guest; three, focusing repairs and maintenance on guest-facing areas while reimaging the balance of the estate; and four, getting pride in ownership back with our Maggiano's management teams.

We recently concluded the annual Maggiano's Conference in Orlando with the brand's top 150 leaders and the response to the new strategy and the green shoots of the execution plan was very encouraging. The Maggiano's leadership response was, we need to get back to Maggiano's, and many specifically gave me the feedback and felt like they are now being listened to. I look forward to providing updates on how the Maggiano's turnaround plan is progressing on future calls.

Our continued momentum at Chili's is proof our strategy is working and gives us confidence in our ability to lap our high sales comparisons this fiscal. I especially want to thank our Chili's heads for their hard work and commitment to what sets Chili's apart, providing great hospitality and delicious food and drinks in a fun and friendly atmosphere. I also want to recognize our Maggiano's teammates for their engagement in our Back to Maggiano's turnaround plan and their understanding of the changing strategy and plans. Their leadership and positive attitude and passion for returning the brand to its roots is exciting to see, and I know will lead to better results in the long term.

Now I'll hand the call over to Mika to walk you through fiscal '26 first quarter numbers. Go ahead, Mika.

Mika Ware
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. Brinker delivered another outstanding quarter led by Chili's, which marks our sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit sales and positive traffic growth, sustaining the strong momentum we built last year. Our investor growth strategy and everyday industry-leading value continue to position us well in a competitive and challenging environment, enabling our delivery of consistent positive results by focusing on the fundamentals of food, service and atmosphere.

For the first quarter, Brinker reported total revenues of $1.35 billion, an increase of 18.5% over the prior year, with consolidated comp sales of positive 18.8%. Our adjusted diluted EPS for the quarter was $1.93, up from $0.95 last year. Chili's reported top line sales growth with comps coming in at positive 21.4% driven by positive traffic of 13.1%, positive mix of 4.3% and price of 4%. We continue to see strong year-over-year top line growth, same-store sales and traffic well above industry averages and significant restaurant margin expansion at Chili's.

Our improved operations, menu innovation and effective marketing have brought more guests to Chili's and in a crowded environment full of limited time-only promotions, our consistent everyday value sets us apart.

Turning to Maggiano's. The brand reported comp sales for the quarter of negative 6.4%. As Kevin mentioned, we are focused on stabilizing and improving the business utilizing our new back to Maggiano's strategy, which is designed to improve our value proposition, optimize our service model and ensure our atmosphere is clean and well maintained.

At the Brinker level, we saw continued strong flow-through this quarter with restaurant operating margin coming in at 16.2%, a 270 basis points improvement year-over-year, primarily driven by sales leverage, partially offset by unfavorable food and beverage costs. Food and beverage costs for the quarter were unfavorable 60 basis points year-over-year due to unfavorable menu mix with 2.6% commodity inflation offset by price. We remain pleased with the stable mix and profitability of our $10.99 3 for Me value platform. It offers a compelling price point for guests seeking value while still allowing us to maintain margin profitability.

Labor for the quarter was favorable 120 basis points year-over-year. Top line sales growth offset additional investments in labor and wage rate inflation of approximately 3.8%. Advertising expense for the first quarter were 2.5% of sales and decreased 10 basis points on a year-over-year due to sales leverage. G&A for the quarter came in at 4.2% of total revenues, 30 basis points lower than prior year due to sales leverage, partially offset by increases in ERP system and support costs.

Depreciation and amortization for the quarter came in at 4% of total revenues and decreased 10 basis points year-over-year due to sales leverage offset by an increase in our asset base from equipment purchases. Our first quarter adjusted EBITDA was approximately $172.4 million, a 54.4% increase from prior year. The adjusted tax rate for the quarter increased to 18.5%, mainly driven by the increase in sales, which accelerated at a greater rate than the offset generated by the FICA tax tip credit.

Capital expenditures for the quarter were approximately $58.6 million, driven by capital maintenance spend. As discussed, in 2026, we are ramping up our reimage program for Chili's and expect to have 4 completed by the end of this calendar year for evaluation, while also working on our long-term new unit growth strategy with the goal of fully rolling out both programs during fiscal 2027 helping us return to positive net new unit growth. And for Maggiano's, as Kevin said, our main focus will be on guest-facing repairs and maintenance and a smaller reimage program before shifting gears to new unit growth.

Our strong free cash flow provides sufficient liquidity to maintain our disciplined capital allocation strategy, allowing us to invest in our restaurants and return excess cash to shareholders. We supported this approach by repurchasing $92 million of common stock under our share repurchase program. With regard to fiscal 2026 guidance, we are reiterating the targets provided on our last earnings call. Chili's is on track to beat our original goals for the year, but those gains will likely be offset by softer results at Maggiano's, along with the investments needed to stabilize that brand's performance.

We are also currently expecting higher tariffs on commodities, along with higher inflation in workers' comp and health insurance claims. With all these factors and the current economic uncertainty, our overall guidance for the company stays the same. The assumptions underlying our guidance largely remain unchanged, except we now anticipate commodity inflation, inclusive of tariffs in the mid-single digits rather than the low single digits as projected last quarter.

Despite these headwinds, we remain confident our plans will enable us to lap fiscal 2025 and continue to outperform the industry on sales and traffic at Chili's. We still anticipate that the first quarter will be our strongest on a year-over-year basis with more moderate gains in subsequent quarters due to last year's high comparison base. Despite challenging comparisons and a weaker macroeconomic environment, Q2 is off to a great start.

Given the high comp numbers we are rolling this quarter, we thought it would be helpful to share quarter-to-date sales with expectations for the balance of the year. Chili's quarter-to-date sales are in the high single digits, and our expectations are Chili's same-store sales will normalize on average in the mid-single-digit range for the balance of the fiscal year. We will continue to manage the business for the long term and make investments strategically, so the timing of expense impacts may not be spread evenly across all quarters.

In summary, our first quarter results reflect the continued strength of our strategy and the disciplined execution focusing on the fundamentals of food, service and atmosphere. Chili's continues to lead the way with exceptional performance, driven by industry-leading value platforms and guest favorites such as the Triple Dipper and our frozen Patrón Margaritas. As we execute the Back to Maggiano's plan, I am excited to partner with Kevin, Rich and the Maggiano's team as they return the brand to its full potential.

As we look ahead, we remain focused on delivering sustainable long-term growth by sticking to our investor growth strategy and our continued momentum gives me confidence in our ability to deliver positive results this fiscal year.

With our comments now complete, I will turn the call back over to Paul to moderate questions. Paul?[ id="-1" name="Operator" /> [Operator Instructions] And the first question today will be from Chris O'Cull from Stifel.