e.l.f. Beauty, Inc. (ELF) Q2 2026 Earnings Call November 5, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Kristina Casey Katten - Vice President of Investor Relations
Tarang Amin - Chairman, CEO & President
Mandy Fields - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Dara Mohsenian - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Olivia Tong Cheang - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Andrea Teixeira - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Sydney Wagner - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Anna Lizzul - BofA Securities, Research Division
Peter Grom - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Bonnie Herzog - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Susan Anderson - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
Oliver Chen - TD Cowen, Research Division
Stephen Robert Powers - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Rupesh Parikh - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Kristina Casey Katten
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you for joining us today to discuss e.l.f. Beauty's Second Quarter Fiscal '26 results. I'm KC Katten, Vice President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations. With me today are Tarang Amin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mandy Fields, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

We encourage you to tune into our webcast presentation for the best viewing experience, which you can access on our website at investor.elfbeauty.com. Since many of our remarks today contain forward-looking statements, please refer to our earnings release and reports filed with the SEC, where you'll find factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements.

In addition, the company's presentation today includes information presented on a non-GAAP basis. Our earnings release contains reconciliations of the differences between the non-GAAP presentation and the most directly comparable GAAP measure. With that, let me turn the webcast over to Tarang.

Tarang Amin
Chairman, CEO & President

Thank you, KC, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, we will discuss our second quarter results and our outlook for fiscal 2026. I'm proud of our incredible e.l.f. Beauty team for another quarter of consistent category-leading growth. In Q2, we grew net sales 14% and delivered $66 million in adjusted EBITDA. Q2 marked our 27th consecutive quarter of net sales growth, putting e.l.f. Beauty in a rarefied group of high-growth companies. We are 1 of only 6 public companies out of 546 that has grown for 27 straight quarters and average at least 20% sales growth per quarter.

Beauty continues to be a resilient category. In Q2, the U.S. mass cosmetics and skin care categories grew approximately 2% year-over-year, in line with the low single-digit growth we've seen in the category over the last 10 years. On a consumption basis, our namesake e.l.f. brand grew 7% this quarter, 3x the category and grew our market share by 140 basis points. We delivered triple-digit share gains across eye, lip and face.

Consumers continue to choose e.l.f. Q2 marked our 27th consecutive quarter of market share gains, making e.l.f. the only brand out of nearly 1,000 cosmetics brands tracked by Nielsen to gain share for 27 consecutive quarters. In August, we closed on the acquisition of Rhode, the high-growth beauty brand founded by Hailey Bieber and executed a record-breaking launch in Sephora North America. The acquisition contributed $52 million or approximately 17 percentage points to our net sales in Q2.

On an organic basis, excluding Rhode, our net sales were down approximately 3% this quarter. Shipments were below consumption, primarily driven by our decision to temporarily stop shipments to retailers who are slower to execute our price increase that took effect on August 1. We're pleased to report this is now resolved and normal shipments have resumed.

Looking at fiscal '26, we're pleased to provide full year guidance, which calls for net sales growth of 18% to 20% year-over-year. This is on top of the 28% net sales growth we delivered in fiscal '25 and projects another year of best-in-class growth among consumer companies. Within that, we expect organic net sales, excluding Rhode to be up approximately 3% to 4%.

We believe our consumption trends and market share gains are the best indicator of the underlying health of our business and are pleased by our ongoing strength we've seen in fiscal '26 to date. We expect our shipments to be below consumption in fiscal '26, particularly as we lap significant distribution gains in Dollar General and Target that occurred in the second half of fiscal '25. Over a longer period of time, shipments tend to even out with consumption.

We remain confident in our strategy to grow market share and capitalize on the white space ahead of us. We believe the addition of Rhode enhances our long-term growth. In fiscal '26, we expect Rhode to contribute about $200 million in net sales to our results. When considering the $98 million of net sales Rhode achieved in the first half of the year prior to the acquisition close, our outlook assumes Rhode will generate approximately $300 million in net sales on an annualized basis for the 12 months ending March 31, 2026, growing approximately 40% year-over-year.

The strength of our brands is evident when viewed in the context of the overall beauty market. While beauty has comparatively low barriers to entry, very few brands have been able to scale. Of the over 1,900 cosmetics and skin care brands tracked by Nielsen, only 26 has surpassed $100 million in annual retail sales. With our acquisition of Naturium 2 years ago and the acquisition of Rhode in August, we now have 4 brands that surpass this threshold.

Our brands are unified by our vision to be a different kind of company by building brands that disrupt norms, shape culture and connect communities through positivity, inclusivity and accessibility. Let me take a moment to discuss our brands and key milestones we achieved in Q2. First, turning to e.l.f. Cosmetics and e.l.f. SKIN. The combination of our value proposition, powerhouse innovation and disruptive marketing engine continue to fuel our market share gains, deepen existing community connections and expand our audience segments.

In Piper Sandler's semiannual, Taking Stock With Teens survey, e.l.f. Cosmetics ranked the #1 favorite team makeup brand for a record 8 consecutive surveys. It's the first time in the 25-year history of this survey that any cosmetics brand has achieved this level of sustained leadership. Notably, our 36% mind share is now 4.5x the #2 brand. E.l.f. SKIN also reached a new high, increasing its ranking to the #7 favorite teen skin care brand, up from #8 last year.

We continue to grow our audience beyond Gen Z. Our latest awareness and usage study shows e.l.f. purchasers growing substantially amongst millennials and Gen X. We're also the most purchased brand among Gen Alpha, showing our multigenerational appeal. Today, e.l.f. Cosmetics is purchased by approximately 1 in 3 females in the U.S.

Our marketing is working, delivering ROIs multiples above industry benchmarks and expanding our brand awareness. Over the last 5 years, we've grown e.l.f.'s unaided awareness in the U.S. from 13% to 45% in Canada from 8% to 26% and in the U.K. from 6% to 19%. Looking at innovation. We have a unique ability to deliver a steady stream of holy grails, taking inspiration from our community and the best products in prestige and bringing them to market in an extraordinary value with our signature e.l.f. Twist.

As one example, Power Grip Primer is the #1 SKU across the entire U.S. cosmetics category. Our customers crave more, which is why we recently launched our limited edition Mega Power Grip Primer, containing 50x the amount of product as the original Power Grip. Mega went viral, selling out in 3 minutes on TikTok Shop where it launched exclusively. Our latest e.l.f. SKIN campaign highlights our Bright Icon Vitamin C + E + Ferulic Serum and its incredible value at $17 compared to a prestige item at $185. Proof of our ability make the best of beauty accessible and expand the category.

[Presentation]

Tarang Amin
Chairman, CEO & President

Our value proposition continues to resonate with our consumers. Our $1 global portfolio wide price increase went into effect on August 1 to help mitigate some of the increased costs we're seeing from higher tariffs. Even after this increase, 75% of our portfolio sits at a phenomenal value of $10 or less. For context, the average price for e.l.f. Cosmetics is $7.50 today as compared to approximately $9.50 for legacy mass cosmetics brands and nearly $30 for prestige brands.

While still relatively early since our price increase went into effect, we're pleased that our consumption continues to outperform category trends. The strength of our productivity and category-leading results continue to earn e.l.f. additional space with our global retailers. In Target, our longest-standing national retailer, we increased our footprint earlier this year to 20 linear feet, up from 13 feet previously.

In Walmart, we increased our space last year to 12 feet from 8 feet previously. We're pleased to report that in spring 2026, we'll be increasing our space with e.l.f. Beauty beyond the 12 feet of space we have today. Looking outside the U.S., we're excited for the expansion we have planned this fall. E.l.f. will be launching with Rossmann in Poland and with Sephora in the 6 countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council, our second launch with Sephora following our success in Mexico.

We're also pleased to announce we'll be expanding our reach in Germany in spring 2026, launching e.l.f. with DM, building upon the successful launch we had with Rossmann last year. Next, turning to Rhode, the breakthrough beauty brand founded by Hailey Rhode Bieber. I've been in the consumer space 34 years and continue to be blown away by what Hailey and her team are building.

In just under 3 years since its founding, Rhode has seen exceptional growth, achieving $212 million of net sales, DTC only with just 10 products. In September, we launched Rhode with Sephora, the world's leading global beauty retailer. The launch is off to a phenomenal start. In fact, Rhode had the biggest launch in Sephora North America's history, exceeding the previous record by 2.5x.

To celebrate the launch, we have the opportunity to ring the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange, bringing together the trailblazing female founders that are part of the e.l.f. Beauty family. In terms of what's next, we're seeing significant pent-up global appetite for Rhode. International drives nearly 20% of Rhode's DTC sales, while 74% of the brand's social followers are from outside the U.S. We're excited to launch Rhode in Sephora U.K. this month and further its global reach.

Turning to Naturium, a disruptive brand focused on ingredient-led biocompatible skin care. This quarter, we ran Naturium's first-ever awareness campaign, shaped by the voices of Naturium's loyal community who share how its products help them love their skin. The campaign reflects the brand's unwavering commitment to delivering the consistent skin care to everyone, everywhere, every day.

[Presentation]

Tarang Amin
Chairman, CEO & President

As we look ahead, I'm proud that we continue to lead with purpose as we strive to create a different kind of beauty company, one that is purpose-led and results driven. Our newly released fourth annual impact report demonstrates how we make the world a better place for every eye, lip and face.

[Presentation]

Tarang Amin
Chairman, CEO & President

In summary, we're excited by the momentum we're seeing across our brand portfolio and remain confident in our ability to continue to gain share and deliver best-in-class beauty I'll now turn the call over to Mandy to talk more about our second quarter results and our outlook for fiscal '26.

Mandy Fields
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you, Tarang. Q2 net sales of $344 million grew 14% year-over-year on top of the 40% growth in Q2 of last year. The acquisition of Rhode contributed $52 million or approximately 17 percentage points to our Q2 results. Looking to our organic sales trends. Our consumption outpaced category trends by over 3x, leading to 140 basis points of market share gains in the quarter.

As Tarang mentioned, our Q2 shipments were below consumption, primarily driven by our decision to stop shipments on orders not reflecting our August 1 price increase. Pricing and product mix added approximately 21 points to net sales growth, partially offset by a 6 percentage point impact from lower unit volumes.

Looking to our geographic regions. Our net sales in the U.S. grew 18% year-over-year in Q2, while international net sales grew 2%. As a reminder, this quarter, we lapped our launch into Rossmann, Germany in the year ago period, which marked our largest international launch to date.

We are pleased with our continued portfolio and geographic expansion. We're in the early days of the international opportunity we see. For context, international drives approximately 20% of our net sales as compared to legacy peers having over 70% of their sales outside of the U.S. Q2 gross margin of 69% was down approximately 165 basis points compared to prior year. The year-over-year decline was largely driven by incremental tariff costs. This was partially offset by gross margin benefits from our price increase and mix.

On an adjusted basis, SG&A as a percentage of sales was 56% in Q2 as compared to 53% in Q2 last year, primarily driven by ongoing investments in our team and infrastructure. Marketing and digital investment for the quarter was 23% of net sales as compared to 24% in Q2 last year. Q2 adjusted EBITDA was $66 million, down 4% versus last year. Adjusted net income was $41 million or $0.68 per diluted share compared to $45 million or $0.77 per diluted share a year ago.

Moving to the balance sheet and cash flow. Our balance sheet remains strong, and we believe positions us well to execute our long-term growth plans. We ended the quarter with $194 million in cash on hand compared to a cash balance of $97 million a year ago. Our liquidity position remains strong with less than 2x leverage after our acquisition of Rhode. We expect our cash priorities for the year to remain on investing behind our growth initiatives and supporting strategic extensions.

The specific initiatives we're focused on this year include investing in our people and infrastructure, our ERP transition to SAP and our global expansion. I'm pleased that our transition to SAP has been successful since our go-live in July with Q2 marking our first full quarter close on the new system. Our smooth go-live is a testament to the exceptional talent and dedication of our e.l.f. Beauty team and partners.

Now let's turn to fiscal '26. As we spoke about last quarter, we plan to provide a full fiscal '26 outlook once we had greater clarity on tariffs. To set the foundation, about 75% of our global production today comes from China. Between April 9 and May 13, we were subject to tariffs at the 170% level. From May 14 through the end of October, product imports to the U.S. were subject to tariffs at the 55% level. As of November, we are now subject to a lower tariff at the 45% level given the recent reduction announced by the administration.

While tariff rates remain volatile, we believe the lead time of our supply chain gives us greater visibility into our costs for the second half of the year. Our outlook assumes that the 45% tariff rate stays in place for the remainder of our fiscal year. For context, we estimate every 10 percentage points of incremental tariffs results in a $17 million gross impact to our cost of goods sold on an annualized basis before any mitigating actions.

For the full year, we expect net sales growth of approximately 18% to 20%. Adjusted EBITDA between $302 million and $306 million, adjusted net income between $165 million to $168 million and adjusted EPS of $2.80 to $2.85 per diluted share. We expect our fiscal '26 adjusted tax rate to be approximately 23% and a fully diluted average share count of approximately 59 million shares.

Let me provide you with additional color on our planning assumptions for fiscal '26. Starting with the top line. For the full year, we expect net sales growth of 18% to 20% year-over-year. Within that, we expect organic net sales, excluding Rhode, to be up approximately 3% to 4% year-over-year. On top of that, we expect Rhode to contribute about $200 million in net sales over the 8 months since our August 5 closing date.

Looking to the second half, our guidance implies net sales growth of 24% to 27% year-over-year. We expect Rhode to contribute 22 percentage points to net sales growth in the second half. On an organic basis, this implies 2% to 5% net sales growth. As Tarang discussed, we are pleased by the ongoing strong consumption rates we have seen in fiscal '26 to date and expect to continue to outperform category trends into the second half.

We expect shipments to be lower than consumption as we cycle expanded distribution in Dollar General and the over 50% space expansion in Target that we had in the second half of last year. Turning to adjusted EBITDA. For the full year, we expect $302 million to $306 million in adjusted EBITDA, up 2% to 3% year-over-year. This implies adjusted EBITDA margins of approximately 17% in the second half as compared to 22% in the first half.

There are 2 key factors impacting second half adjusted EBITDA margins. First, marketing. We are targeting marketing and digital spend in the 24% to 26% range for the full year. That implies marketing spend of approximately 27% to 29% of net sales in the second half, up about 600 basis points on the top end relative to the 23% of net sales we spent in the first half.

We expect this to be partially offset by gross margin improvements. We expect our gross margin in the second half to be approximately 71%, up about 200 basis points sequentially relative to the first half with anticipated benefits from price increases and mix of business given our acquisition of Rhode.

In summary, we're pleased to have delivered another quarter of industry-leading sales and market share growth. We believe we have a winning strategy and are in the early innings of unlocking the full potential we see for our growing portfolio of disruptive brands. With that, operator, you may now open the call to questions.