Expedia Group, Inc. (EXPE) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Rob Bevegni
Ariane Gorin - CEO & Director
Scott Schenkel - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Eric Sheridan - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Mark Stephen Mahaney - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Justin Post - BofA Securities, Research Division
Lee Horowitz - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Kenneth Gawrelski - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jed Kelly - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Conor Cunningham - Melius Research LLC
Jacob Seed - TD Cowen, Research Division
Deepak Mathivanan - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Naved Khan - B. Riley Securities, Inc., Research Division
Thomas Champion - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Expedia Group Q3 2025 Financial Results Teleconference. My name is Alex, and I'll be the operator for today's call. [Operator Instructions] For opening remarks, I will now turn the call over to VP, Investor Relations, Rob Bevegni. Please go ahead.

Rob Bevegni

Good afternoon, and welcome to Expedia Group's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. I'm pleased to be joined on today's call by our CEO, Ariane Gorin; and our CFO, Scott Schenkel. As a reminder, our commentary today will include references to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in our earnings release. Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates are on a year-over-year basis and any reference to expenses exclude stock-based compensation. We will also be making forward-looking statements during the call, which are predictions, projections and other statements about future events.

These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to risks, uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Actual results could materially differ due to factors discussed during this call and in our most recent Forms 10-Q, 10-K and other filings with the SEC. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any responsibility to update these forward-looking statements. This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at ir.expediagroup.com. A replay will be archived on our site for 30 days.

A slide deck containing financial highlights has also been posted on our IR website. For today's call, Ariane will begin with a review of our third quarter results and an update on our progress against our strategic priorities. Then Scott will provide additional details on our third quarter financial performance and guidance. After our prepared remarks, we will turn the call over to the operator to begin the Q&A portion of the call. And with that, let me turn the call over to Ariane.

Ariane Gorin
CEO & Director

Thank you, Rob, and thank you all for joining us today. Our third quarter results exceeded both our top and bottom line expectations, reflecting an improved demand environment, disciplined execution and progress on our strategic priorities. We grew bookings 12% and revenue 9%, while expanding our EBITDA margin meaningfully. We're building solid momentum across the company with clear proof points that our strategy is working. The market was healthy in the quarter with an acceleration in the U.S. and continued strength in the rest of the world. We saw longer lengths of stay and longer booking windows, both signs of a stronger consumer. Based on our results to date and ongoing trends, we're raising our full year guidance, which Scott will cover shortly.

In the third quarter, we grew booked room nights 11% and expanded our hotel share globally. In the U.S., room nights were up high single digits, our fastest growth in over 3 years. Nights were up low double digits in EMEA and high teens in the rest of the world, including over 20% in Asia. We drove continued momentum in B2B and in advertising. B2B bookings increased 26%, marking our 17th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth, while advertising revenue was up 16%. Our Consumer Brands grew bookings 7% with double-digit growth outside the U.S. and particular strength in Europe. Expedia remained our largest and fastest-growing brand, while Hotels.com and Vrbo both improved sequentially, posting year-over-year growth in room nights and bookings.

Our strong performance was supported by progress in advancing each of our 3 strategic priorities, all of which continue to be accelerated by AI. I'll begin with our first priority, delivering more value to travelers. Our brands are personalized travel companions that are with travelers at every step of their journey from trip planning to booking, adding and changing and beyond. A year ago, we set out to sharpen the value propositions of our 3 big brands. We've better aligned product, supply, marketing and loyalty for each brand, and it's paying off. On product, we released new features to drive better traveler experiences. For Vrbo, we made it easier for travelers to find the property that's just right for them with new recommendation experiences and improved property comparison tools.

On Expedia, we launched new design flows in the lodging search and post-booking paths. Coupled with enhanced recommendation models, these have led to double-digit growth in vacation rentals and record attach rates. Since the beginning of the year, we've integrated AI into our products at key moments that matter from AI filters to property Q&A, guest review summaries and our service agent. And these features are driving engagement and getting even more effective with time. On supply, we provide travelers a broad assortment of inventory to choose from at competitive prices, and we're constantly improving both.

Last quarter, we sourced more great deals for our travelers than ever before. We tripled the number of properties funding deals in our summer sale. And on Vrbo, over 20% of our bookings were on partner-funded promotional rates, a new capability we launched in the spring. Both of these illustrate the power of our flywheel. Supply partners participate more deeply in our marketplace. We deliver more value to travelers and in turn, we drive incremental demand back to these same partners. Loyalty is another powerful way we deliver value to travelers. With One Key, travelers get both immediate discounts and earn One Key Cash for future trips.

Active members were up mid-single digits. And across the board, One Key is driving more repeat and more direct bookings, growing fastest with Silver members and above. We recently launched 2 important loyalty capabilities on Vrbo and Hotels.com. For Vrbo, we introduced member deals, giving our members access to better rates. And on Hotels.com, we introduced Save Your Way, a high-value program that gives travelers flexibility to choose how and when they save.

Turning to our second priority, investing where we see the greatest opportunities for growth. B2B had another fantastic quarter. We grew share with existing partners and added new partners. We released new tools to help our partners more easily identify promotional rates and also launched a new AI-powered trip planner. Specifically in our travel agency business, we've grown the number of agencies we work with, expanded our agent loyalty program and added features like new payment options, all of which have contributed to over $3 billion of bookings year-to-date.

Looking ahead, we see further opportunity across our B2B business, and we'll continue investing to drive growth. On advertising, we delivered a strong quarter with a record number of active partners, and we continue to be one of the highest returning channels for our advertisers. We're using AI to make our ads more relevant while also injecting it into partner tools like our new ad portal that has improved targeting and measurement capabilities.

Finally, on growth opportunities. AI-driven search is transforming the way travelers discover and plan their trips. We're moving fast and deliberately to ensure our brands show up wherever travelers are. We're making good progress on Answer Engine Optimization even as traffic today remains small. And we're forging tight partnerships with leading tech companies like Google, OpenAI and Perplexity. We were a launch partner with ChatGPT's apps, and we'll continue to experiment with new Gen AI experiences. Beyond the volume that comes from them, these early integrations are keeping us at the leading edge of evolving technology and customer behavior, learnings we're bringing directly back into our broader business.

No matter where a traveler starts their discovery journey, we're confident that they'll ultimately choose to book with the brand they trust and know we will be with them along their whole journey, including when something doesn't go as planned. This remains a key differentiator for our business. Moving to the third pillar of our strategy, driving operating efficiencies and margin expansion. We expanded margins by over 2 points in the quarter, thanks to our continued operational discipline and volume leverage. I'm particularly pleased that we delivered our fourth consecutive quarter of improved marketing productivity in our consumer business.

AI provides an opportunity for step function improvement in our team's efficiency and effectiveness over time. We're already seeing the benefits in our product, technology and customer service teams from enhancing developer productivity to improving resolution speed on servicing to highlight just a couple of examples. We've created expert squads that we're embedding across our teams to accelerate adoption, and we see a lot of potential ahead.

In closing, we delivered a strong third quarter. The demand environment improved, and we advanced our priorities. While we saw continued momentum in October, we're keeping a close eye on economic indicators and remaining focused and agile amidst a dynamic macro environment. As we enter the final quarter of the year, we have real confidence in our ability to execute and create value for all of our stakeholders. I want to thank our team for their hard work, thank our partners for their trust in us. And with that, I'll turn it over to Scott.

Scott Schenkel
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Ariane, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to share our third quarter performance, which beat the high end of our guidance range with bookings up 12%, revenue up 9% and EBITDA margin expansion of over 2 points. Our outperformance was driven by solid execution across our company and a stronger-than-expected U.S. market. Versus our expectations, we sustained strong demand throughout the quarter and higher lodging and air prices. As Ariane mentioned, the acceleration in our B2B business was significant tailwind that helped drive our performance. Our booked room nights were up 11%, driven by our strongest U.S. night growth in over 3 years and sequentially, acceleration across all our main regions and core brands. Also worth noting, B2C hotel room night growth in Europe was also the highest we have seen since the first quarter of 2023.

Overall, as we look at travel, demand for premium travel has performed well, accelerating from Q2 and then was bolstered by resilient demand at the lower end as well. Gross bookings were $30.7 billion, up 12%, including a 1 point benefit from foreign exchange. Revenue of $4.4 billion grew 9% and had a 2.5 point benefit from foreign exchange, roughly 1 point more than expected. Bookings growth exceeded revenue growth primarily due to book-to-stay timing as the majority of our revenues are recorded at the time of stay, not when the booking takes place. Advertising revenue grew 16%, posting another double-digit quarter. We see significant opportunities for continued growth, including increasing penetration outside of North America, B2B and monetizing on more areas of our sites.

Moving to our segment performance. B2C gross bookings of $21.3 billion accelerated 6 points to 7% year-over-year, driven by performance both domestically and internationally. B2C revenue of $2.9 billion grew 4%, driven by improved market demand, advertising and insurance. B2C EBITDA margins were 41%, up approximately 4 points from last year. This was driven by significant marketing leverage achieved through ongoing optimization of marketing spend. Margins were further supported by our continued discipline in managing cost of sales and overhead as well as growth in our high-margin advertising and insurance revenues. B2B gross bookings were $9.4 billion or 26% with broad-based growth across all regions.

Rapid API was our fastest-growing product and the largest contributor to growth. As a reminder, Rapid connects Expedia Group's powerful lodging supply and content with larger travel partners such as travel management companies and other OTAs. ARC Travel business, which is our solution for offline travel agents, also grew 25%. B2B revenue grew 18%, posting yet another strong quarter, which is below bookings growth primarily due to book-to-stay timing. B2B EBITDA margins were 29%, flat year-over-year as we prioritize investments to support the continued growth of B2B.

Turning to group profitability. We delivered third quarter adjusted EBITDA of $1.4 billion, a margin of 33%. The 2 points of adjusted EBITDA margin expansion was driven by revenue and expense leverage, particularly within direct sales and marketing in our B2C segment. Adjusted EPS of $7.57 grew 23% faster than EBITDA due to share repurchases.

Moving to our cost structure. We leveraged meaningfully across all our categories. Cost of revenue was $373 million, down 3%, leveraging 1 point as a percentage of revenue, driven by efficiencies in payments and customer service. Total direct sales and marketing expenses were $2 billion, up 7%, driven by B2B. As a reminder, commissions paid to our partners are included in the direct sales and marketing expenses for B2B and recorded at the time of stay. We saw significant leverage in our B2C business with direct sales and marketing down 4%, leveraging over 0.5 point as a percentage of gross bookings. Overhead expenses were $620 million, up 3%, while leveraging almost 1 point on revenue, benefiting from the actions we took to reduce our cost structure earlier in the year.

Now turning to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $6.2 billion of unrestricted cash and short-term investments, and we remain committed to maintaining debt levels consistent with our investment-grade rating. Free cash flow on a trailing 12-month basis was $3 billion and reflects the strength of our operating model and disciplined execution of our strategic priorities. At quarter end, we had $1.8 billion remaining in our share repurchase program after utilizing $451 million in the quarter to repurchase 2.3 million shares of our common stock. This brings our total shares repurchased in the last 3 years to 44 million, which reduces our share count by 22% net of dilution.

Turning to our outlook. We are raising Q4 and full year guidance. For Q4, we expect gross bookings and revenue growth of 6% to 8%. Gross booking includes an estimated 1 point benefit and revenue includes a 1.5 point benefit from foreign exchange at current rates. Adjusted EBITDA margins are expected to expand by approximately 2 points with a minimal impact from currency at current rates. As Ariane indicated, we saw continued momentum in October, but we are monitoring economic indicators within a dynamic macro environment. As a reminder, the moderation in our Q4 growth is driven by lapping the 6-point bookings and 7-point revenue acceleration experienced in Q4 of last year.

For the full year, we expect gross bookings to be up approximately 7%, revenue up approximately 6% to 7% and EBITDA margins to be up approximately 2 points versus last year. We will provide our full year guidance for '26 on our Q4 earnings call. We have built strong momentum on margin expansion with the year-to-date adjusted EBITDA margins up close to 2 points, enabling us to drive the highest margin expansion we have had in 3 years. Looking ahead to 2026, we expect further margin expansion, albeit at a more moderated pace than what we drove in 2025 as we continue our cost-out efforts and invest behind our growth initiatives. Regarding capital allocation for the balance of 2025, we expect to continue repurchasing shares roughly in line with levels over the last couple of years.

In conclusion, we are pleased with our third quarter results and our outlook for the fourth quarter. We are encouraged by the momentum we're building across our strategic priorities, which will position the company to drive long-term profitable growth. Now let me open the call for questions.