Comfort Systems USA, Inc. (FIX) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 24, 2025 11:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Julie Shaeff - Senior VP & Chief Accounting Officer
Brian Lane - CEO, President & Director
William George - Executive VP & CFO
Trent McKenna - Executive VP & COO

Conference Call Participants

Adam Thalhimer - Thompson, Davis & Company, Inc., Research Division
Sangita Jain - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Julio Romero - Sidoti & Company, LLC
Brent Thielman - D.A. Davidson & Co., Research Division
Joshua Chan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Timothy Mulrooney - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Brian Brophy - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2025 Comfort Systems USA Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call may be recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to Julie Shaeff, Chief Accounting Officer. Please go ahead.

Julie Shaeff
Senior VP & Chief Accounting Officer

Thanks, Michelle. Good morning. Welcome to Comfort Systems USA's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. Our comments today as well as our press releases contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the applicable securities laws and regulations. What we will say today is based upon the current plans and expectations of Comfort Systems USA. Those plans and expectations include risks and uncertainties that might cause actual future activities and results of our operations to be materially different from those set forth in our comments. You can read a detailed listing and commentary concerning our specific risk factors in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q as well as in our press release covering these earnings. A slide presentation is provided as a companion to our remarks and is posted on the Investor Relations section of the company's website found at comfortsystemsusa.com.

Joining me on the call today are Brian Lane, President and Chief Executive Officer; Trent McKenna, Chief Operating Officer; and Bill George, Chief Financial Officer. Brian will open our remarks.

Brian Lane
CEO, President & Director

All right. Thanks, Julie. Good morning, and thank you for joining us on the call today. Our amazing teams across the country continue to deliver excellent results for our customers, and they have delivered financial results that far exceed even our recent outcomes. We earned $8.25 per share this quarter, which is double what we earned in the same quarter last year. Our mechanical business had a sharp increase in profitability, and our electrical segment was higher as well. We also had favorable developments in some late-stage projects that contributed to our great results.

Construction is driving most of our results, but service revenue and profit also grew by double-digit percentages. Our bookings were strong, and our backlog at the end of the quarter grew to a new high of $9.4 billion. As a result of exceptional demand for our services, we achieved a second consecutive same-store backlog increase of more than $1 billion despite significant third quarter burn. We continue to book work with good margins and good working conditions for our valuable people. We entered the fourth quarter of 2025 with $3.7 billion more in backlog than last year at this time.

I'm happy to announce the acquisition of 2 companies on October 1. FZ Electrical, a contractor with strong industrial capabilities located in Grand Rapids, Michigan; and Meisner Electric, a contractor based in Boca Raton, Florida, with strong capabilities in health care and other attractive markets. We are thrilled to have these 2 companies join the Comfort Systems USA family of companies, and we welcome them.

Today, we increased our quarterly dividend by 20% to $0.60 per share, and we have actively purchased shares during 2025. With solid bookings and great demand, we expect continuing growth and strong results in 2025 and 2026.

Trent will discuss our operations and outlook in a few minutes, and I will make closing comments after our Q&A. But first, I will turn the call over to Bill to review our financial performance. Bill?

William George
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Brian. Our third quarter results were remarkable in every way with 33% same-store revenue growth, sharply higher margins, EPS up by over 100% from the prior year and a surge of over $500 million in quarterly free cash flow. We achieved more than $400 million in quarterly EBITDA for the first time ever, and that's a 74% increase over the same quarter 1 year ago.

So we'll start with revenue. Revenue for the third quarter of 2025 was $2.5 billion, an increase of $639 million or 35% compared to last year. Electric segment revenue grew by 71% and mechanical revenue increased by 26%. Through 9 months, same-store revenue increased 23% and currently, our best estimate is that fourth quarter same-store revenue will grow in the high-teen range as compared to the same quarter last year. For full year 2026, we expect same-store revenue growth to continue most likely by a percentage in the low to mid-teens and weighed more heavily to the first half of the year.

Gross profit was $608 million for the third quarter of 2025, $226 million higher than 1 year ago. Our gross profit percentage grew to a remarkable 24.8% this quarter compared to 21.1% for the third quarter of 2024. Quarterly gross profit percentage in our mechanical segment increased significantly to 24.3% this year compared to 20.3% last year. Margins in our electrical segment also grew to 26.2% as compared to 23.9% in the third quarter of 2024.

Great ongoing execution augmented by favorable developments in certain late-stage projects drove us to higher margins in both segments. Our largest single discrete project development was recognizing $16 million of previously deferred revenue on a project as a customer emerged from bankruptcy. We currently expect that 2026 profit margins are likely to continue in the strong ranges that we have achieved and averaged over recent quarters.

SG&A expense for the quarter was $230 million or 9.4% of revenue compared to $180 million or 9.9% of revenue in the third quarter of 2024. SG&A increased mainly from ongoing investments in people to support our higher activity levels.

Our operating income increased by just over 86% from last year from $203 million in the third quarter of 2024 to $379 million for the third quarter of 2025. Our operating income percentage surged to 5.5% this quarter from 11.2% in the prior year.

Our year-to-date tax rate was 20.9%. Our effective tax rate in the first quarter was lower due to interest we received on a delayed refund relating to our 2022 federal tax return. We expect our tax rate to continue to be around 23% for the rest of 2025 and into 2026.

After considering all these factors, net income for the third quarter of 2025 was $292 million or $8.25 per share as compared to net income for the third quarter of 2024 of $146 million or $4.09 per share. Thanks to great execution by our people, EBITDA increased by 74% to $414 million this quarter from a strong $238 million in the third quarter of 2024. Our trailing 12-month EBITDA is now $1.25 billion.

Free cash flow for the third quarter of 2025 was $519 million, and year-to-date, our free cash flow is $632 million. We purchased additional shares this quarter. And year-to-date, we have spent around $125 million, buying approximately 345,000 shares at an average price of $363.13 per share. At the end of September, our net cash position was $725 million.

As Brian mentioned, we acquired 2 fantastic companies on October 1, Feyen Zylstra and Meisner Electric. We funded approximately $170 million in purchase consideration in the first -- fourth quarter, and these acquisitions are expected to provide over $200 million in incremental annual revenue and $15 million to $20 million of annual EBITDA.

In August, we finalized an amendment to our senior credit facility that increased our borrowing capacity from $850 million to $1.1 billion on very favorable terms. The new maturity date is October 2030. Our balance sheet and cash flow have put us in a great position to continue to invest, grow and reward our shareholders.

That's all I got. Trent?

Trent McKenna
Executive VP & COO

Thanks, Bill. I'm going to discuss our operations and outlook. Our backlog at the end of the third quarter was a record $9.4 billion, a large sequential and large year-over-year increase. Since last year at this time, our backlog has increased by $3.7 billion or 65% and $3.5 billion of the increase was same-store. On a sequential basis, backlog increased by $1.3 billion or 15%, all of which was same-store.

Third quarter bookings were especially strong in the technology sector, both in our traditional construction business as well as the modular part of our business. We are entering the final quarter of 2025 with same-store backlog 62% higher than at this time last year, and our project pipelines remain at historically high levels.

Industrial customers accounted for 65% of total revenue in the first 9 months of 2025, and they are major drivers of pipeline and backlog. Technology, which is included in Industrial, was 42% of our revenue, a substantial increase from 32% in the prior year.

While our manufacturing revenues declined on a percentage basis, we continue to see good demand for manufacturing, but in many cases, data center opportunities are more compelling.

Institutional markets, which include education, health care and government remain strong and represent 22% of our revenue. The commercial sector provided about 13% of revenue. Most of our service revenue is for commercial customers. Construction accounted for 86% of our revenue with projects for new buildings representing 61% and existing building construction 25%. We include modular in new building construction and year-to-date, modular was 17% of our revenue. We remain on track to have 3 million square feet of space in our modular businesses by early 2026, and we will prudently consider additional investments next year based on the strong demand we are seeing in modular.

Service revenue was up 11%, but with faster growth in construction, it is now 14% of total revenue. Service profitability was strong this quarter, and service continues to be a growing and reliable source of profit and cash flow.

I cannot say enough about the amazing team of craft professionals that we have working hard for our customers every single day. Thanks to the teams that are working across the country, we are optimistic about our future. I want to close by joining Brian and Bill in thanking our over 21,000 employees for their hard work and dedication.

I will now turn it back over to Michelle for questions. Thank you.