F.N.B. Corporation (FNB) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 21, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Lisa Hajdu - Manager of Investor Relations
Vincent J. Delie - Chairman, President & CEO
Gary L. Guerrieri - Chief Credit Officer
Vincent J. Calabrese - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Daniel Tamayo - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Russell Elliott Gunther - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Casey Haire
Kelly Motta - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Brian Martin - Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, everyone. And welcome to the FNB Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

Please also note that today's event is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference call over to Lisa Hajdu, Manager of Investor Relations. Ma'am, please go ahead.

Lisa Hajdu
Manager of Investor Relations

Good morning, and welcome to our earnings call. This conference call of FNB Corporation and the reports as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission often contain forward-looking statements and non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to and not as an alternative for our reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.

Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP operating measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our presentation materials and in our earnings release. Please refer to these non-GAAP and forward-looking statement disclosures contained in our related materials, reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our corporate website. A replay of this call will be available until Wednesday, January 28, and the webcast link will be posted to the About Us, Investor Relations section of our corporate website.

I will now turn the call over to Vince Delie, Chairman, President and CEO.

Vincent J. Delie
Chairman, President & CEO

Thank you, and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call. Joining me today are Vince Calabrese, our Chief Financial Officer; and Gary Guerrieri, our Chief Credit Officer.

FNB reported fourth quarter operating net income available to common shareholders of $182 million or $0.50 per diluted common share. Full year 2025's operating performance reflected several records, including revenue of $1.8 billion, operating net income available to common shareholders of $577 million and operating earnings per diluted common share of $1.59.

Full year operating EPS grew 14% year-over-year, driven by the 9% growth in net interest income, significant margin expansion and record noninterest income. We delivered strong profitability and capital metrics with return on average tangible common equity equaling 16% and tangible book value per share of $11.87, an increase of 13% from the year ago quarter. Throughout 2025, we focused on resetting the balance sheet to best position FNB for continued future success, including managing loan concentrations as well as improving the loan-to-deposit ratio to 89.7%.

In December, we transferred approximately $200 million of performing residual mortgage loans to held for sale in anticipation of a loan sale to close in the first quarter of 2026. Additionally, as I mentioned on the earnings call a year ago, we have strategically decreased our CRE concentration organically to 197% over the past few years. We are generating enough capital to support growth across our loan portfolio, including CRE and have ample capacity to achieve historical growth rates. Since launching our Clicks-to-Bricks strategy 10 years ago, FNB has introduced innovative solutions, including the eStore and common application that provide an enhanced client experience to deepen relationships and achieve customer primacy. Our comprehensive digital strategy, including our early adoption of AI, remains a driving force behind client acquisition, engagement and convenience.

This quarter, we introduced payment switch, which enables customers to easily switch preauthorized payments to their primary checking to FNB through our mobile app. With direct deposit switch and payment switch, we've eliminated 2 of the most common barriers for customers to move their primary banking relationship to FNB. This is another great example of how FNB is leading the industry with our eStore Clicks-to-Bricks strategy and comprehensive digital capabilities. We are planning on introducing additional unique features over the coming quarters that will benefit our customers and further differentiate us in the marketplace.

Concurrently, FNB continues to expand to AI and data analytics usage to drive efficiency and accelerate revenue growth. Through our disciplined expense management culture, FNB has achieved annual cost savings of $10 million to $20 million per year since 2019. Leveraging our investments in technology, AI and data analytics, we expect even higher levels of cost savings in 2026 through increased automation and process improvements. This provides FNB the ability to continue to invest in our revenue-generating businesses and differentiated omnichannel customer experience while continuing to produce meaningful positive operating leverage.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Gary to discuss the strong credit results for the quarter. Gary?

Gary L. Guerrieri
Chief Credit Officer

Thank you, Vince. Good morning, everyone. We ended the quarter and year-end with our asset quality metrics remaining at very strong levels. Total delinquency ended the quarter at 71 basis points, up 6 bps from the prior quarter with NPLs and OREO down 6 bps, ending at a multiyear low of 31 basis points. Net charge-offs totaled 19 basis points and 20 basis points for the year, showing continued strong performance throughout an uncertain economic environment.

We experienced a further decline of $147 million or 10.2% in criticized loans on a linked quarter basis, driven by payoff activity with decreases again observed throughout all of the commercial segments. Once again, we were pleased with the improvements we saw during the quarter and throughout 2025. Total funded provision expense for the quarter stood at $18.7 million, supporting the C&I loan growth and charge-offs. Our ending fund reserve stands at $440 million, an increase of $2.3 million, ending at 1.26%, up 1 basis point from the prior quarter.

When including acquired unamortized loan discounts, our reserve stands at 1.32%, and our NPL coverage position remained strong at 438%, inclusive of the discounts. Regarding tariffs, we continue to monitor line utilization and industry concentrations, especially customers with a higher potential impact over the longer-term. Since Q1, we have not seen any material impacts on the loan portfolio and have continued to experience positive credit migration since then. Furthermore, this quarter marked our strongest C&I loan production activity for the year, enabling us to achieve positive net C&I loan growth in the quarter and year-over-year which offset another decrease in line utilization. Regarding the nonowner CRE portfolio, all credit metrics improved quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year with delinquency and NPLs at 34 and 31 basis points, respectively.

We have successfully managed the CRE risk and exposure to end the year within our desired range as a percentage of our capital base. We started to see some high-quality opportunities during the quarter However, exits through ongoing secondary market activity resulted in a reduction in exposure. We continue to enhance our concentration risk and allowance for credit loss frameworks and our proprietary credit management tool that provides a comprehensive view of our customer base. Not standing periodic uncertainty in the economic environment our core credit philosophy and strong credit risk management practices position us to successfully navigate any potential volatility across the various economic cycles.

In summary, we continue to be very pleased with the performance of our loan portfolio and our team's attention to managing risk, which has positioned us well for growth in the year ahead. Building on the strong momentum we saw in the quarter, we continue to focus on core C&I and equipment finance growth with our building pipelines. Additionally, with potential for increases in line utilization, our growth expectations for high-quality CRE and our well-positioned retail franchise, we look forward to achieving our desired levels of balance sheet growth in the year ahead.

I will now turn the call over to Vince Calabrese, our Chief Financial Officer, for his remarks.

Vincent J. Calabrese
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Gary, and good morning. Today, I will focus on the fourth quarter's financial results and walk through our guidance for the first quarter and full year of 2026. Fourth quarter operating net income totaled a record $181.8 million or $0.50 per share when excluding a discretionary $20 million charitable contribution to the FNB Foundation partially offset by a reduction in the estimated FDIC special assessment.

Record total revenues of nearly $458 million, grew a very strong 12.4% on an operating basis and operating pre-provision net revenue grew 21.5% from the year ago quarter. The fourth quarter's performance also includes investment tax credits of $37.2 million from a renewable energy financing transaction, partially offset by related noncredit valuation impairment of $4.4 million pretax on the financing receivable, which is included in other noninterest expense. FNB's Equipment Finance business originates renewable energy financing transactions is a core element of their business strategy. While we continue to have an active pipeline in the renewable energy sector, certain types of projects are limited by changes in the tax laws.

Total assets at year-end 2025 exceeded $50 billion for the first time in company history. Fourth quarter average loans and leases of $35 billion, increased $169 million from last quarter or 1.9% annualized. Average consumer loans grew $223 million, primarily due to higher residential mortgage and consumer line of credit balances. Average commercial loans and leases slightly decreased $54 million linked quarter driven by higher attrition from secondary market activity, lower line utilization and further scheduled reductions in CRE balances. Average commercial and industrial loans increased $81 million and commercial leases increased $26 million, while average commercial real estate loans declined $158 million.

CRE exposure has reached our desired concentration range and combined with record capital levels and a sub-90% loan-to-deposit ratio provides FNB a meaningful opportunity to participate in an economic environment with more favorable loan growth prospects. As part of our ongoing balance sheet management strategies, approximately $200 million of performing residential mortgage loans were transferred to held for sale late in the fourth quarter with the actual loan sale expected to close in the first quarter.


Residential mortgage loans are expected to roughly approximate the growth in the overall loan portfolio in 2026. Fourth quarter average deposits totaled $38.6 billion, an increase of $740 million or 7.7% linked quarter annualized driven by organic growth in new and existing customer relationships. Average interest-bearing demand balances grew strongly, particularly interest-bearing checking and money market balances. Average noninterest-bearing deposits exceeded $10 billion and were up 4.5% linked quarter annualized. The mix of noninterest-bearing deposits to total deposits on a spot basis remained at 26%. Success of our ongoing balance sheet management strategies and deposit gathering initiatives brought our loan-to-deposit ratio below 90%, a more than 170 basis point improvement from year-end 2024. Fourth quarter net interest income totaled a record $365.4 million, up 1.7% linked quarter and 13.4% above the fourth quarter of 2024.

Average earning assets were up $310 million sequentially on higher loan and investment securities balances. The yield on earning assets declined 11 basis points sequentially as variable rate loans were impacted by the 75 basis points of Federal Reserve interest rate cuts since September of 2025, while the yield on the investment securities portfolio only declined slightly. Interest-bearing deposit costs decreased 13 basis points linked quarter to 2.53% and borrowing costs declined 30 basis points to 4.35%. The resulting fourth quarter net interest margin was 3.28%, up 3 basis points linked quarter and up 24 basis points year-over-year. Our total cumulative spot deposit beta. Since the Fed interest rate cuts began in September of 2024, ended the year at 25%. We continue to strategically lower deposit pricing in step with the downward trend in the Fed funds rate and we expect a relatively stable net interest margin in the first quarter of 2026.

Operating noninterest income was $92.3 million, up 8.8% from the year ago period. Wealth Management revenues grew 15% from 2024 levels, driven by securities commissions and fees and growth across the geographic footprint. Service charges increased 4.1% from last year reflecting increased contributions from treasury management activities. Increases in SBA sold loan premiums and other miscellaneous gains drove the strong increase in other income and BOLI income was boosted by higher life insurance claims. Capital markets income included higher swap fees and increased international banking revenue. Despite higher gain on sale and net positive fair value adjustments from hedging activity, mortgage banking income declined on higher MSR amortization and a net MSR fair value recovery in the fourth quarter of 2024.

Operating noninterest expense totaled $256.5 million and $8.3 million or 3.4% increase from the year ago quarter. Salaries and employee benefits expenses were up 4.5% from the year ago quarter, primarily reflecting strategic hiring and higher performance and production-related compensation. Output Services increased 15.3% from last year due to higher volume-related technology and third-party costs and occupancy and equipment increased 7.3% primarily due to technology-related investments and higher occupancy costs. Other operating noninterest expense decreased $3.3 million and included a financing receivable noncredit impairment of $4.4 million from the tax credit transaction mentioned earlier, which was approximately $6 million lower than the impairment recognized for the fourth quarter 2024 tax credit transaction.

The efficiency ratio remained solid at 53.8% for the fourth quarter, 307 basis points better than the fourth quarter of 2024. We continue to manage our expense base in a disciplined manner which is expected to generate significant positive operating leverage in 2026. FNB's capital levels remained at record levels with a CET1 ratio at 11.4% and tangible common equity ratio at 8.9%, providing flexibility to optimally deploy capital to increase shareholder value. On a year-over-year basis, tangible book value per common share increased $1.38 or 13.2% to $11.87, demonstrating our strong profitability levels and commitment to peer-leading internal capital generation. Share repurchases totaled nearly $50 million for the full year of 2025, the highest level since the program originated in 2020.

Let's now look at the guidance for the first quarter and full year 2026 starting with the balance sheet. For full year 2026, period-end loans and deposits are expected to grow mid-single digits versus year-end 2025 as we continue to increase our market share across our diverse geographic footprint. Full year 2026 net interest income is expected to be between $1.495 billion and $1.535 billion with first quarter net interest income expected between $355 million and $365 million.

Our guidance assumes 225 basis point rate cuts in April and October. Noninterest income for the year is expected to be between $370 million and $390 million, with the first quarter expected between $90 million and $95 million. Full year guidance for noninterest expense is expected to be between $1 billion and $1.02 billion, representing a 1.5% increase at the midpoint compared with 2025 operating expenses. First quarter noninterest expenses are expected in a range of $255 million to $260 million as compensation expense is seasonally higher in the first quarter due to the timing of normal long-term stock compensation and higher payroll taxes. The 2026 provision expense is expected to be between $85 million and $105 million, dependent on net loan growth and charge-off activity.

Lastly, the full year effective tax rate should be between 21% and 22%, which does not include any investment tax credit activity that may occur.

With that, I will turn the call back to Vince.

Vincent J. Delie
Chairman, President & CEO

As you've heard in our prepared remarks, we are very pleased with our financial results and achieved a number of records for 2025 including revenue, noninterest income and EPS. Our balance sheet surpassed $50 billion in assets, and we are well positioned to benefit from technology investment and expected growth opportunities. Our performance reflects steadfast execution of our multipronged strategy, diversifying revenue streams, optimizing our balance sheet, deploying capital thoughtfully and serving as the primary bank for our clients, enabled by our tech investments in eStore and omnichannel capabilities. Successful execution of FNB's strategy has led to enhance profitability and capital accretion, all while achieving some of the highest returns in the industry.

Looking ahead to 2026, we are confident in our ability to deliver meaningful loan and deposit growth, margin expansion and further diversification of fee income. Our improved capital levels and double-digit tangible book value growth year-over-year provide strong capital flexibility and position FNB to continue to deliver sustainable long-term value benefiting our customers, employees, communities and shareholders.

