Galderma Group AG (OTCPK:GALDY) Q3 2025 Sales Call October 23, 2025 9:30 AM EDT

Company Participants

Emil Ivanov - Head of Strategy, Investor Relations & ESG
Flemming Ornskov - CEO & Director
Thomas J. Dittrich - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Thibault Boutherin - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Harry Sefton
Shyam Kotadia - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Benjamin Jackson - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Yihan Li - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Victor Floch - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division
Richard Vosser - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Natalia Webster - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Galderma's conference call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to hand the conference over to Emil Ivanov, Head of Strategy, Investor Relations and ESG to introduce the call. Emil, please go ahead.

Emil Ivanov
Head of Strategy, Investor Relations & ESG

Thank you very much. Welcome to Galderma's 2025 Third Quarter Trading Update Call. As customary, the press release was published at 7 a.m. Central European standard time today and can be viewed on our corporate website at any time. Today's presentation slides as well as a recording of the webcast will be made available on our website after the call.

Please be advised that today's presentation contains forward-looking statements, which will be treated with the appropriate level of caution as advised on the slide.

Let me now introduce today's trading update webcast, Dr. Flemming Ornskov, CEO of Galderma will provide performance highlights for the third quarter, Thomas Dittrich, CFO, will then present the trading update and the financial outlook for the full financial year. Both Flemming and Thomas will be available to answer questions from financial analysts before Flemming provide his final remarks to close the webcast.

With this, I would like to invite Flemming to start Galderma's highlights for the third quarter of 2025. Flemming, over to you?

Flemming Ornskov
CEO & Director

Thank you, Emil. Good morning, good afternoon, and welcome to Galderma's third quarter 2025 Trading Update webcast. In a year of opportunities, we delivered record net sales for the first 9 months along with strong commercial and innovation momentum across our portfolio. For the first nine months, Galderma delivered USD 3.7 billion in net sales. These results are ahead of expectation, driven by focused execution of both the existing portfolio and new innovation. Growth was driven primarily by volume, complemented by favorable mix.

For the period, net sales growth was up 15% year-on-year at constant currency. Growth for the third quarter was up 21% year-on-year at constant currency. This represents an acceleration across all geographies and product categories despite challenging market dynamics. The growth was especially strong for Nemluvio in the U.S. while neuromodulators benefit from some favorable phasing in the third quarter. Based on our strong growth trajectory across the portfolio and Nemluvio's performance, we are raising our full year guidance. For net sales growth, we expect to close the year between 17% and 17.7%. For core EBITDA, we expect a margin between 23.1% and 23.6%, both at constant currency. Our performance demonstrates our ability to deliver growth through commercial excellence, innovation and global expansion. Let's look at some highlights by product category on the next slide.

Galderma continues on its strong growth momentum with net sales growth acceleration in the third quarter across all product categories and geographies. Galderma achieved double-digit growth in both injectable aesthetics and therapeutic dermatology reflecting broad-based growth momentum and successful commercial execution for the first 9 months of the year. Dermatological skincare continued on a strong trajectory, especially in international markets. Globally, all 3 product categories outperform their respective markets. Both geographies delivered double-digit growth as did most of Galderma's top 10 markets. Our performance reflects focused commercial execution across our core business as well as incremental growth opportunities, as you'll see on the next slide.

Let's start with injectable aesthetics, focusing on our neuromodulator portfolio. Our next-generation neuromodulator, Relfydess, continues to ramp up well in the 17 markets where it was already launched. Feedback remains very positive, and we are progressively gaining market share mainly from competitors. I'm happy to share that we received 3 new approvals for Relfydess in Hong Kong, New Zealand and the United Arab Emirates. This last one arrived just in time for us to showcase Relfydess at the Aesthetic and Anti-Aging Medicine World Conference in Dubai. The conference took place in early October, and you can see some visuals on the right side of the slide. There was a lot of excitement. We look forward to the launch next year in a market where we currently do not have a neuromodulator offering.

We also completed multiple additional Relfydess submissions globally progressing in our plans to have the broadest neuromodulator portfolio globally.

The neuromodulator subcategories overall has been performing really well with market share gains in the U.S. and in international markets. If we focus on the European countries where Relfydess is launched, we see early signals demonstrating the strength of our neuromodulator portfolio strategy. Over the past 12 months, our neuromodulator portfolio gained 490 basis points of market share. And in the third quarter, the portfolio delivered double-digit growth with Dysport growing well and Relfydess continuing to ramp up.

Moving now to fillers and biostimulators, where we continue to invest for growth. We gained further market share in fillers and biostimulators in international markets and in the U.S. Restylane continued to be impacted by a soft filler market, while Sculptra maintained a very strong growth trajectory with double-digit growth across geographies. I would like to showcase 2 specific efforts, which are stimulating growth for this category.

First, global activities on our proven injectable treatments for improving facial appearance, after medication driven weight loss. We believe that we are best positioned in this space with our clinically proven portfolio of Sculptra and the full Restylane range. We provide leading education and training for health care professionals leveraging the first of its client clinical trial data focused on patients experiencing [ patient ] volume loss associated with the medication driven weight loss. We also commissioned clinical consensus guidelines which set a standard approach for identifying and managing the unique needs of this patient population. And in the U.S., we launched a significant direct-to-consumer campaign called Sculpt & Lift, targeting patients on GLP-1 treatment. We believe this is an important opportunity to increase demand for the category and for the Galderma offering as the campaign aims to bring medication driven weight loss patients to aesthetic practices. This includes patients who may not have been aesthetic users before.

Second, we continue to scale recently launched differentiated innovation. This includes the ramp-up of Restylane shape in Brazil, which created a total new segment as a bone-mimicking fillers, it offers an outcome, which could previously only be achieved with invasive plastic surgery. The launch continues to progress strongly with a positive halo effect on the rest of the portfolio of Restylane in the market.

The other significant launch was Sculptra in China which is on a very strong growth trajectory. Our Chinese team has been executing an exemplary omni launch strategy to increase awareness and penetration. Two of the achievements I find particularly impressive. Over 100,000 units were sold in the first 6 months of the launch. Sculptra is already the #1 searched brand in biostimulator [indiscernible] with over 200 million impressions.

Switching now to Dermatological skincare, we continue to focus on the core of our business, while also introducing new innovation to capture opportunities for further growth. Starting with Cetaphil. We further expanded its range to address white spaces. This included 2 totally transformative launches in the U.S., creating entirely new categories based on proven science.

First, the skin activate a hydrating and firming line. It marks an entirely new skincare category of advanced hydration and firming solutions this time specifically to improve the amperage of aging, thinning and fragile skin. This also marks our first step in strengthening our position in the faster-growing hands and body lotion segment, where we historically have been underrepresented in the U.S.

Second, the nourishing oil to foam cleanser represents a breakthrough in high-grading cleansers for sensitive skin. This first of its kind formula is designed to deeply cleanse while preserving hydration and supporting the sensitive skin's moisture barrier. As the essential first step in any skincare regime, it also removes sunscreen and makeup, making it ideal for double-cleansing or a stand-alone use.

In addition, Galderma continued to roll out recent innovation in international markets. This includes multiple Cetaphil lines, especially in the fast-growing Asian and Latin American markets. We're also using these to strengthen our position globally and capture local opportunities. For example, the gentle exfoliating SA line was launched in China, strengthening our offering in the face segment. For Alastin, the preferred periprocedural skincare brand in the U.S., we broadened our reach and leverage synergies with our injectable aesthetics portfolio. Following an exclusive launch for our partnering health care professionals, we initiated a broad consumer outreach for our restorative skin complex with next-generation TriHex Technology. This has been another successful launch turning the improved formula into one of Alastin's top-selling products. It also received Elle Magazine's Future of Beauty Award for top skin tightening cream, reinforcing its position for medication driven weight-loss patients.

Second, we continue to expand Alastin in international markets. For the launch of China, we're excited about to introduce Alastin to the second largest precision dispense market globally.

Turning to therapeutic dermatology. Nemluvio remains on a strong trajectory, especially in the U.S. Nemluvio continues to surpass expectations underpinned by growing demand and increased access. This is reflected in Nemluvio's growing share of total prescriptions and paid new patient starts. If we look at the 6-week rolling average of paid new patient start, also known as NBRx from September to early October. Nemluvio was trending at about 37% market share in prurigo nodularis and 7.3% in atopic dermatitis. As a result, atopic dermatitis sales became the larger contributor in the third quarter. Overall, the majority of patients starting on Nemluvio were new -- yes, new to advanced therapy. This demonstrates the value perceived from Nemluvio in these indications by health care professionals who have prescribed the product to their patients.

Last, but of course, not least, we continue to expand access for patients. The percentage of patients covered by commercial plans with broad access to reimbursement has surpassed 80%. For both indications, Nemluvio is reimbursed as a first-line biologic treatment with no need to first go through another therapy. Meanwhile, in international markets, Nemluvio's uptake continues to be strong in Germany. We have now launched Nemluvio in Austria, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Denmark while progressing on price negotiations with multiple other markets where Nemluvio is already accrued. A number of additional regulatory submissions globally are also in profits.

As you can see, Galderma continues to perform strongly advancing our growth drivers across the portfolio and reinforcing our leadership in dermatology through new data presentations and world-class education programs.

I'd now like to hand over to Thomas to cover the sales performance in more detail as well as the outlook for the remainder of the year. Thomas?

Thomas J. Dittrich
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Flemming. It's my pleasure to comment on Galderma's Q3 2025 trading update and outlook, starting with an overview of net sales for the period. As mentioned by Flemming, Galderma continued on its strong momentum, achieving a record USD 3.737 billion in net sales for the first 9 months of the year, up 15% year-on-year at constant currency. For the third quarter, this represented an acceleration to 21% year-on-year growth at constant currency. This was higher than expected for the quarter based on strong performance across the portfolio and especially from Nemluvio's ramp up along with some favorable phasing in neuromodulators. Growth was broad-based and continues to be driven by volume, complemented by favorable mix which more than offset adverse price impact.

Looking now at injectable aesthetics, net sales were USD 1.871 billion, up 10.5% year-on-year at constant currency. Neuromodulator net sales were USD 1.053 billion, up 14.0% year-on-year at constant currency. Both the U.S. and international markets delivered double-digit growth, outperforming the market and gaining share. Growth was driven by strong performance of Dysport in both the U.S. and international markets, along with the ongoing ramp-up of Relfydess. Neuromodulator growth in the third quarter was 12.6% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, benefiting from strong execution as well as some favorable phasing between the third and the fourth quarter. Fillers and biostimulators net sales were USD 818 million, up 6.2% at constant currency for the first 9 months.

Again, Galderma grew faster than the market and gained share in both the U.S. and international markets. While fillers overall continue to be impacted by market softness, Galderma's performance was supported by the growth of differentiated products and especially new launches, including Restylane SHAYPE in Brazil, as Flemming presented earlier. Biostimulators maintained very strong momentum with outstanding double-digit growth in both geographies. Sculptra remains our fastest-growing injectable aesthetics brand. Growth was especially behind in the international markets with widespread performance and strong contribution from China, where we just launched the brand earlier this year.

Next, moving to dermatological skincare. Net sales for the first 9 months were USD 1.063 billion with year-on-year growth of 8.2% at constant currency. Galderma outgrew the market in dermatological skincare globally with the majority of our key markets gaining share despite some constrained consumer spending. Growth in dermatological skincare was led by international markets, our larger geographies, where both Cetaphil and Alastin grew double digit. I would also be remiss not to mention Cetaphil's continued outstanding trajectory in fast-growing Asian markets, especially in India and China. In the U.S., performance was impacted by constrained consumer spending. Nonetheless, Cetaphil in the U.S. saw positive responses late in the third quarter from multiple promotional activities. Meanwhile, Alastin continued to deliver double-digit growth in the U.S.

Now on to therapeutic dermatology. Net sales reached USD 804 million for the first 9 months of 2025, up 40.4% year-on-year in constant currency. Growth was driven by Nemluvio's continued outperformance, which more than offset the expected decline in the mature portfolio. Nemluvio's net sales for the first 9 months were USD 263 million, predominantly from the U.S. and prurigo nodularis. However, atopic dermatitis representing the larger market opportunity overtook prurigo nodularis sales in the third quarter for the first time. As formulary coverage for patient reimbursement increased significantly, the results for the third quarter reflect managed carry rebates resulting from securing commercial coverage. For the mature portfolio, excluding Nemluvio, performance was impacted by anticipated lower volumes and pricing pressures globally, especially in the U.S. Nonetheless, we also saw some positive momentum in international markets where we capitalized on our strong portfolio in acne and rosacea.

Now looking at net sales geographically for the first 9 months of the year. The majority of our top 10 markets grew double digits with particularly high performance in key international markets, such as India, China, Mexico, Germany and the U.K. and Ireland. Both reporting geographies accelerated their growth momentum, noting the U.S. growth was especially fueled by the Nemluvio ramp-up. International, which remains the larger of our 2 reporting geographies, continued its strong growth momentum with 13.2% net sales growth at constant currency. Injectable Aesthetics delivered double-digit growth in most key international markets, including in Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific. Both neuromodulators and fillers and biostimulators grew double digits, outpacing the market and gaining share.

Neuromodulators saw growth across markets. Flemming already shared some highlights for Europe, which delivered the greatest growth contribution supported by the launch of Relfydess. Growth for neuromodulators in the third quarter also benefited as mentioned by some favorable phasing relative to the fourth quarter. For fillers and biostimulators, Restylane gained share in most key markets against a soft backdrop for fillers. As for Sculptra, we delivered strong growth and outstanding performance across international markets with some markets growing even triple digits. This includes markets where Sculptra is already well established especially in Latin America. Following the launch earlier this year, Sculptra continues its strong ramp up in China, the second largest injectable aesthetics market globally.

Dermatological skincare also delivered double-digit growth internationally, ahead of the market, driven especially by continued outstanding growth of Cetaphil in Asia, especially in China and India. Alastin also contributed to strong growth from the ongoing international expansion, albeit from a smaller base. Therapeutic Dermatology growth was primarily driven by the ongoing rollout of Nemluvio also internationally.

Moving now to the U.S. Net sales growth was 17.5% year-on-year at constant currency. The growth contribution was particularly strong from the ramp-up of Nemluvio, while injectable aesthetics and dermatological skincare grew modestly. Both neuromodulators and fillers and biostimulators outperformed the U.S. market and gained share. Growth was especially driven by Dysport and Sculptra, both growing double digit, while Restylane outperformed a declining filler market. Dysport in the U.S. also benefited from some favorable phasing between the third and fourth quarter.

In dermatological skincare, we navigated a constrained consumer spending environment in the U.S., especially impacting Cetaphil. Nevertheless, Cetaphil in the U.S. saw positive responses made in the third quarter from the multiple...

[Technical Difficulty]

Emil Ivanov
Head of Strategy, Investor Relations & ESG

Apologies for the disruption. We are trying to resume the call, bear with us. Thank you for that. Operator, could you please confirm that the sound is coming through?

Operator

Yes, it is all loud and clear.

Emil Ivanov
Head of Strategy, Investor Relations & ESG

Perfect. Thomas will resume his remarks. He is going to resume from his comments related to tariff exposure.

Thomas J. Dittrich
Chief Financial Officer

Happy to do that. So now moving on to tariff exposure in terms of the U.S., our exposure to tariffs that are already in effect is deemed manageable. Tariffs are mainly relevant for our U.S. fillers and biostimulator portfolio, which represents approximately 7% of our total Galderma net sales. Please recall that any tariff would be on the import value, thus exposing only a portion of the in-market net sales price to tariffs. Furthermore, it is important to remember that our in-market net sales price charge to health care professionals is typically only the smaller portion of the end consumer treatment price.

Also recall, more than 90% of all injectable aesthetics products currently sold in the U.S. are being imported. Our guidance fully factors in the exposure to all tariffs that are already in effect. Any further tariff announcement will be reviewed as to their potential impact during the remainder of the year, if any. Given the importance of the U.S. market, let me also remind you that we continue to expand our U.S. operations. Earlier this year, we announced our new U.S. headquarters in Miami, Florida, complementing our already established corporate and R&D hubs in 3 other U.S. states. We continue to provide significant health care professional education and training events across the country. We have committed to spend more than USD 650 million on U.S. manufacturing activities through the third-party manufacturers over the next 5 years. This includes ramping up final assembly and packaging for Nemluvio in Florida as well as the manufacturing of Alastin and select Cetaphil products with our contract manufacturing partners.

Also, Galderma and its partners have initiated additional technology transfers to the U.S. focusing on key growth drivers, including double sourcing Relfydess in the U.S.

Now on to guidance. We are raising our guidance for the full year, as Flemming already mentioned. This reflects our strong growth trajectory across the portfolio and especially of Nemluvio. We are raising net sales to 17.0% to 17.7% year-on-year growth at constant currency from previously 12% to 14%. On core EBITDA, we are raising the margin range to 23.1% to 23.6% at constant currency from previously approximately 23%. The guidance update especially reflects the significant ramp-up of Nemluvio which is driving growth in therapeutic dermatology. It also reflects the strong trajectory in injectable aesthetics with continued outperformance of the market in both neuromodulators and fillers and biostimulators.

In neuromodulators, the fourth quarter is expected to be impacted by phasing effects. Full year net sales growth for neuromodulators is expected to be in the low teens at constant currency. At the half year call, I translated low teens at 11% to 13%, as you recall. As we have now delivered a strong third quarter growth rate, our full year performance is largely derisked, and we expect growth towards the upper end of this 11% to 13% growth range.

In fillers and biostimulators, expectations for the fourth quarter are to maintain the recent growth momentum based on the strong trajectory of Sculptra, and from new launches.

Dermatological skincare is expected to accelerate its growth momentum to reach high single-digit growth at constant currency for the full year.

And finally, for the therapeutic dermatology mature portfolio, the Q3 year-to-date performance is indicative of our expected full year growth for this part of the business. The updated core EBITDA margin reflects reinvestments into growth for the group and to support Nemluvio's strong ramp-up. It also factors in the exposure to all U.S. tariffs that are currently in effect. Any further tariff announcements will be reviewed as to their potential impact during the remainder of the year. Please note that the updated guidance also has implications on the additional modeling metrics, which were previously provided in the financial results. In particular, the increased profitability is expected to positively impact the effective tax rate for the full year, putting it towards the lower end of the previously provided 23% to 25% range that we have provided at the half year call.

This concludes the introductory remarks of Galderma's trading update for the third quarter of 2025. Before we close the meeting with Flemming's final remarks, I would like to now hand back to the operator to open the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Operator, can you please now open the line?