General Dynamics Corporation (GD) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Nicole Shelton - Vice President of Investor Relations
Phebe Novakovic - Chairperson & CEO
Danny Deep - President
Kimberly Kuryea - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Seth Seifman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Douglas Harned - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Gautam Khanna - TD Cowen, Research Division
Scott Deuschle - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Matthew Akers - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Myles Walton - Wolfe Research, LLC
Robert Stallard - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
Ronald Epstein - BofA Securities, Research Division
John Godyn - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Andre Madrid - BTIG, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to the General Dynamics Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Nicole Shelton, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Nicole Shelton
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to the General Dynamics Fourth Quarter 2025 Conference Call. Any forward-looking statements made today represent our estimates regarding the company's outlook. These estimates are subject to some risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding these factors is contained in the company's 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.

We will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. For additional disclosures about these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures, please see the slides that accompany this webcast, which are available on the Investor Relations page of our website, investorrelations.gd.com.

On the call today are Phebe Novakovic, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Danny Deep, President; and Kim Kuryea, Chief Financial Officer.

I will now turn the call over to Phebe.

Phebe Novakovic
Chairperson & CEO

Thank you, Nicole. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for being with us.

Earlier this morning, we reported fourth quarter earnings of $4.17 per diluted share on revenue of $14.379 billion, operating earnings of $1.452 billion and net earnings of $1.143 billion.

To briefly summarize, on a quarter-over-quarter basis, revenue is up 7.8% and operating earnings are up 2%. Net earnings and diluted earnings per share are relatively flat to the year ago quarter, which you may recall was a terrific quarter. It included some significant onetime items, which drove unusually high margins, but more about that later.

The sequential comparisons are quite attractive. Here, we beat the prior quarter's revenue by 11.4%, operating earnings by 9.1%, net earnings by 7.9% and fully diluted EPS by $0.29.

Full year numbers are absolutely terrific. Revenue is up 10.1%, operating earnings are up 11.7%. Net earnings are up 11.3% and fully diluted EPS is up 13.4%. Both revenue and operating earnings were up for each of the segments, led by Marine Systems and Aerospace, with revenue growth of 16.6% and 16.5%, respectively. They also led the parade in operating earnings with Marine Systems up 25.9% and Aerospace up 19.3% for the year. All of this follows terrific revenue and earnings growth in 2024 over 2023.

It would appear that we beat analyst consensus for both the year and the quarter. So let's move on to the business units. First, Aerospace. In Aerospace for the year, we experienced continuing growth of both revenue and earnings, continuing strong demand for Gulfstream aircraft, overall strength in Gulfstream service business and continued growth and performance improvement at Jet Aviation.

In the quarter, Aerospace had revenue of $3.788 billion and earnings of $481 million. This represents a 1.2% increase in revenue, but $104 million decrease in operating earnings on a quarter-over-quarter basis.

While the earning numbers are very good on a stand-alone basis, they do not compare favorably to a standout fourth quarter in the prior year, aided by a number of discrete positive items that were significant increments to earnings. However, the sequential numbers are very positive with a 17.1% increase in revenue, coupled with an 11.9% increase in operating earnings.

Importantly, for the year, Aerospace revenue of $13.1 billion is 16.5% greater than 2024. This is on top of a 30.5% growth in 2024 over 2023. Revenue growth was driven in large part by the delivery of 158 new aircraft, which is 22 more than a year ago. Earnings of $1.75 billion are up 19.3% over 2024.

So let's talk a little about demand. It was a strong quarter boarding on exceptional. Aerospace had a book-to-bill of 1.3x in the quarter and Gulfstream alone had an aircraft book-to-bill of 1.4x, even as deliveries increased significantly in the quarter.

Orders exceeded our internal plan. The delivery of the G700 and G800 and their performance in customer hands is driving increased demand for them, which we experienced in the quarter. We continue to see improved interest across all models in all sales jurisdictions. Interestingly, the overall number of prospects in all areas continues to increase.

Let me turn the discussion over to Danny for his perspective on the quarter.

Danny Deep
President

Thank you. So I want to spend some time exploring the $104 million decrease in operating earnings on a quarter-over-quarter basis. As you might imagine, there were lots of puts and takes in the quarter.

The margin issue was the G600 product line, which had $75 million less in earnings. That was attributable to the delivery of 3 fewer aircraft in the quarter, a $21 million variance in liquidated damages with favorable settlements in the prior year's quarter, some higher overhead than in the prior quarter and the imposition of tariffs in this quarter, but not in the fourth quarter of 2024. If we adjust for these items, the earnings and margin rate on the G600 are very similar for both quarters.

On a quarter over-year ago quarter basis, earnings on the G500, Gulfstream Services and Jet Aviation were down modestly. Now in all of this, there are some good news. The earnings for the G800 more than replaced the G650 earnings on the same basis. The G700 also experienced higher earnings despite 2 fewer deliveries. Obviously, margins are improving nicely on that product. Phebe?

Phebe Novakovic
Chairperson & CEO

So let's move on to the defense businesses. First, Combat Systems. Combat Systems had revenue of $2.5 billion for the quarter, 5.8% more than the year ago quarter. Earnings of $381 million are also up 7% on a 10 basis point operating margin improvement. Operating margin of 15% is very good.

The sequential growth of revenue and earnings at 12.6% and 13.7% is even stronger with particular strength at OTS. For the full year, revenue of $9.2 billion is up 2.8% and earnings of $1.33 billion are up 4.3% as a result of a 20 basis point increase in operating margins as compared to a year ago. All in all, a very nice profile, but the real story is in the order book.

Combat saw robust order intake for the fourth quarter, resulting in book-to-bill of 4.3:1. Orders came from across the portfolio with notable awards in munitions, but exceptional intake in wheel and tracked vehicle programs at European Land Systems. The book-to-bill for the year is 2.1x. This all rolls up to a total backlog of $27.2 billion and total estimated contract value of almost $42 billion. This positions Combat Systems very well for the future.

In short, this group had a very solid year operationally with expanded margins, explosive order activity and a strong order pipeline as we go forward. But before I turn to Marine Systems, I'd like to ask Danny to provide some additional color.

Danny Deep
President

So let me give you some additional detail on several key awards. For some time, we have been talking about the strong demand signals we are observing, particularly in our international portfolio. And as Phebe mentioned, that demand transitioned to some significant awards in the fourth quarter.

In Germany, we received 2 awards for more than $4 billion for our EAGLE tactical vehicles. In Norway and the United Kingdom, we were awarded $600 million for our bridges. And in Canada, we received awards for $640 million for light armored vehicles and additional logistics vehicles. Altogether, a nice order distribution, both geographically and across our product portfolio.

Here in the United States, working closely with the U.S. Army, we continue to make good progress on the acceleration of the next-generation M1E3 main battle tank. All of this provides a strong base for continued strength at Combat.

I'll pass it back to Phebe.

Phebe Novakovic
Chairperson & CEO

So turning to Marine. Once again, our shipbuilding group had exceptional revenue growth. Marine Systems revenue of $4.8 billion is up 21.7% against the year ago quarter. All the shipyards were up, but the submarine programs and Electric Boat were the real drivers of this growth.

I am very pleased to report that operating earnings of $345 million are up 72.5% on a 210 basis point improvement in operating margin. To be fair, the fourth quarter 2024 was the group's poorest operating earnings in that year. Nevertheless, 7.2% last quarter represents a meaningful improvement and real progress in submarine construction.

Sequentially, the numbers are much the same. Revenue increased 17.6% and operating earnings 18.6%. For the full year, Marine revenue of $16.7 billion is up 16.6% and earnings of $1.18 billion are up 25.9%.

So the story of revenue growth continues with some improvement in operating margin and measurable improvement in productivity. Once again, the operating metrics tell us that we have, in fact, increased our productivity at all shipyards.

Danny, feel free to interject your thoughts on Marine from an operating perspective.

Danny Deep
President

As Phebe just mentioned, we have seen demonstrable increases in productivity and throughput at our shipyards. At Electric Boat, as you all know, we have made considerable investments over the last several years, and those investments have enabled a significant increase in output. One key measure of output is submarine tonnage produced and Electric Boat is up 13% over last year.

At Bath Iron Works, we are seeing consistent ship-over-ship learning. And at NASSCO, we are seeing a very positive trend in terms of schedule variances against plan for each successive ship we build.

Our priority in the Marine Group is to remain laser-focused on execution and continue to accelerate production, and we are seeing good progress on that front.

Phebe Novakovic
Chairperson & CEO

And lastly, Technologies. It was a solid, but no growth quarter with revenue of $3.24 billion, about the same as the year ago quarter.

Operating earnings in the quarter of $290 million are down $29 million on an 80 basis point decrease in operating margin. The full year comparisons are somewhat better. Revenue at $13.5 billion is up 2.6%. Earnings of $1.28 billion are up 1.3% on a very similar operating margin.

Let me say that these businesses did very well in an extremely difficult market. The long continuing resolution was particularly impactful and the examination of all contracts by the Department of Government Efficiency hurt growth and slowed contracting activity early in the year. Nevertheless, these businesses persevered and came through it all on a very good basis.

Given all of that, the group had very nice order activity for the year. Total orders for the group reached $15.9 billion, resulting in a book-to-bill of 0.9:1 for the quarter and 1.2x for the year. This left the group with an increased year-over-year backlog of $16.7 billion and total estimated contract value of $49.9 billion, pretty well done under the circumstances.

Danny will give you a little bit more here.

Danny Deep
President

I'll just give a little more color on how this group is positioned going forward. Phebe mentioned the very solid backlog to end the year. This, combined with a robust order pipeline of close to $120 billion of qualified opportunities, certainly presents a healthy market picture as we look forward.

In addition, at Mission Systems, the transition from legacy programs is complete, allowing them to focus where they have deep domain expertise. This expertise aligns well with their customers' priorities in areas, including encryption, subsea warfare and strategic deterrence. The market outlook, coupled with very solid win and capture rates positions this group for durable growth beyond this year.

I'll turn it back to Phebe.

Phebe Novakovic
Chairperson & CEO

Thanks. And let me ask Kim to provide details on our cash performance for the quarter and the year, overall order activity and backlog and any other items she might like to address. I'll then come back to discuss our thoughts on 2026.

Kimberly Kuryea
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you, Phebe, and good morning.

Let me first start with orders and backlog. Our order activity and backlog continued to be a strong story and a highlight for us in 2025. We achieved an overall book-to-bill ratio for the year of 1.5:1, even as revenue grew by 10%.

Let me go through the full year book-to-bill rates for 2025 at each of the segments. First, the Defense segment. Combat Systems achieved a book-to-bill of 2.1x, driven by continued robust demand at each business, particularly at European Land Systems, where we received over $10 billion in new awards.

Marine Systems achieved a book-to-bill of 1.7x with each of our shipyards receiving awards for additional ships in 2025. And Technologies achieved 1.2x a nice award activity at both GDIT and Mission Systems.

Moving to Aerospace. Gulfstream finished the year really strong with their second best orders quarter since second quarter 2008. The full year dollar-based book-to-bill for this segment was 1.2x, marking the fifth consecutive year achieving a book-to-bill greater than 1.

The robust demand across our portfolio resulted in finishing the year with a record total backlog of $118 billion, an astonishing 30% increase over last year. Total estimated contract value, which includes options and IDIQ contracts, ended the year also at a record level of $179 billion, a 24% increase from last year. It's interesting to note that each of the Defense segments ended the year at record levels for both of these metrics and Aerospace ended at levels not seen since the announcement of the G650 in 2008.

Turning now to our cash performance for 2025. I think it's worth noting how we started the year. As a reminder, at the beginning of 2025, we were expecting a free cash flow conversion rate between 80% and 85% as we work through some working capital challenges.

As we progress through the year, we upped that projection to the low 90s. Well, I'm happy to report that we ended 2025 in line with our third quarter expectations.

Let's get to the specifics. The fourth quarter was another strong cash quarter with operating cash flow of $1.6 billion, which brought us to $5.1 billion of operating cash flow for 2025, $1 billion higher than 2024. After considering capital expenditures, our free cash flow for the year was just shy of $4 billion for a cash conversion rate of 94%.

Working capital for the year improved nicely over our original plan due to stronger-than-expected collections and inventory reductions at Gulfstream. While all of our business units contributed nicely to our cash flow for the year, during the fourth quarter, Combat Systems and Aerospace had particularly strong cash generation.

As we signaled, capital expenditures were up significantly in the fourth quarter to $609 million, which adds up to $1.2 billion spent for the full year. For 2025, capital expenditures were in line with our expectations and up almost 30% over 2024.

In the fourth quarter, we also paid $490 million to purchase assets that were originally under lease. Combined, we invested 3.1% of revenue on assets to support the facilities and fixtures that enabled the continued growth of our businesses.

During the fourth quarter, we were in the commercial paper market to support our liquidity during the government shutdown, but ended the year with no commercial paper outstanding. Our cash balance as of year-end was $2.3 billion with a net debt position of $5.7 billion, down $1.4 billion from 2024.

Moving on to our 2026 cash flow projections. We expect to return to our free cash flow conversion rate goal of 100% of net income. This is based on particularly strong operating cash flow, offsetting elevated levels of continued investment across our businesses.

Capital expenditures are expected to increase over $900 million or 79% from 2025. Our capital expenditures will equal between 3.5% and 4% of sales as we continue to invest, especially in our shipyards to accelerate production and meet future demand.

The free cash flow for the year breaks down as follows: The quarters are expected to each be positive and grow slightly with the fourth quarter still representing the largest, but much less of a climb as compared to 2025's plan. We have $1 billion of notes coming due in 2026. Our plan assumes these notes will be refinanced, but this is something that we will continue to evaluate as time approaches.

Turning to interest. Our net interest expense in the fourth quarter was $63 million, bringing interest expense for the full year to $314 million. That compares to $76 million and $324 million in the respective 2024 periods.

Under the assumption that we refinance the maturing notes, we expect interest expense to increase to approximately $340 million due to higher expected interest rates on the new debt.

Wrapping up with income taxes. Our 2025 full year effective tax rate ended up at 17.5%, consistent with our guidance. Looking ahead to 2026, we expect the tax rate to remain at a similar level. Additionally, our cash taxes should remain around the same level with both years receiving some benefit from the R&D capitalization recovery.

That concludes my remarks. I'll turn it back over to you, Phebe.

Phebe Novakovic
Chairperson & CEO

Thank you, Kim. So let me provide our operating forecast for 2026 with some color around our outlook for each business group and then the company-wide rollup.

In 2026, we expect Aerospace revenue to be about $13.6 billion, up around $500 million over 2025. Operating margin is expected to increase to around 14%. This should result in operating earnings of around $1.9 billion.

Gulfstream deliveries will be 160 with a little upside. This is fairly close to 2025. In Combat Systems, we expect revenue in the range of $9.6 billion to $9.7 billion, coupled with an operating margin of 14.1%. This should lead to improved earnings around $1.36 billion at the midpoint of the revenue range.

As I noted earlier, the Marine Group has been on a remarkable growth story. It will continue in 2026. Our outlook for this year anticipates revenue in a range of $17.3 billion and $17.7 billion with a 30 basis point improvement at the operating margin line. This should result in operating earnings around $1.3 billion.

In Technologies, 2026 revenue is expected to be up to $13.8 billion. Operating margins are expected to decrease around 30 basis points to 9.2%. We continue to see long-term low single-digit growth from the group and continued industry-leading margins. The EBITDA margin is quite impressive. This should leave operating earnings of about $1.3 billion.

So for 2026 company-wide, we expect to see revenue in the range of $54.3 billion to $54.8 billion. We anticipate operating margins of 10.4%, up 20 basis points from 2025 actuals. This should leave us with operating earnings around $5.7 billion at the midpoint of the anticipated revenue range. All of this rolls up to an EPS forecast between $16.10 and $16.20. None of this contemplates or includes any capital deployment.

On a quarter basis, if one were to assume an average of $4 per quarter, the first quarter would be off $0.40, second off $0.30; the third off $0.10, and the fourth up $0.80 on a typical fourth quarter increased volume.

To wrap up, as we go into 2026, we feel very good about our business and the prospects for the year. We will do our level best to execute and beat the forecast we have given you. As always, we will be laser-focused on operations.

Nicole, back to you.

Nicole Shelton
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Phebe. [Operator Instructions]. Operator, could you please remind participants how to enter the queue?

