GE Vernova Inc. (GEV) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 7:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Michael Lapides - Vice President of Investor Relations
Scott Strazik - CEO, President & Director
Kenneth Parks - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Joseph Ritchie - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Julian Mitchell - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Nigel Coe - Wolfe Research, LLC
Mark W. Strouse - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Alexander Virgo - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
David Arcaro - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Nicole DeBlase - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Amit Mehrotra - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Andrew Kaplowitz - Citigroup Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to GE Vernova's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] My name is Liz, and I will be your conference coordinator today. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Michael Lapides, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please proceed.

Michael Lapides
Vice President of Investor Relations

Welcome to GE Vernova's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. I'm joined today by our CEO, Scott Strazik; and CFO, Ken Parks. Our conference call remarks will include both GAAP and non-GAAP financial results. Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures can be found in today's press release and presentation slides, both of which are available on our website.

Please note that our year-over-year commentary or variances on orders, revenue, adjusted and segment EBITDA and margin discussed during our prepared remarks are on an organic basis, unless otherwise specified. In addition, our 2026 guidance and our by 2028 outlook being presented today include the Prolec GE acquisition.

We will make forward-looking statements about our performance. These statements are based on how we see things today. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we do not undertake any obligation to do so. As described in our SEC filings, actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties.

With that, I'll hand it over to Scott.

Scott Strazik
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Michael. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call. We have been busy since our December 9 Investor Update, and I thought I'd start with progress since the event. First, on the positive. We continue to see very strong new gas contracts with an incremental 6 gigawatts signed in the last 3 weeks of December, for a total of 24 gigawatts of new contracts in 4Q '25 alone. We also ended the year with strong orders in both Electrification and Wind.

Electrification had its largest order quarter in its history and Wind had its largest order quarter of '25. On the negative, we have been impacted by the U.S. government's halting of all offshore wind activity on December 22, which led to us booking an incremental accrual in 4Q for costs associated with the delay on the Vineyard Wind project. Ken will talk more about this in his section.

I'm pleased that our Prolec GE acquisition has received rapid approval from all required jurisdictions. This will allow us to close the acquisition on Monday, February 2. Taking all this into consideration, we are raising our full year '26 financial guidance which now includes GE Vernova's full ownership and operation of Prolec for 11 months in '26.

Taken in totality, the last 3 weeks of December since our last update were a reasonable proxy for our '25 performance in total: strong growth in our largest most profitable businesses with momentum continuing, challenges and wins that we are continuing to combat with accretive capital allocation with the approvals required to close our first sizable acquisition as a stand-alone public company. '25 sets us up for substantially more profitable growth moving forward. In '25, we increased our total backlog by over 25% or $31 billion to $150 billion with robust profitable order growth in Power and Electrification further underscoring our momentum as we kick off '26. In Power, we continue to see accelerating demand and favorable pricing trends for both equipment and services as customers invest in new units and existing assets.

In 4Q, Gas Power equipment backlog and slot reservations increased from 62 to 83 gigawatts sequentially primarily due to strong U.S. demand but also with agreements in the Middle East, Vietnam and Taiwan with backlog increasing from 33 to 40 gigawatts and SRAs increasing from 29 to 43 gigawatts. We expect to reach approximately 100 gigawatts under contract in '26. Under the assumption, we'll ship high teens in gigawatts this year with new contracts north of 30 gigawatts. In 4Q, we grew our Power services backlog to $70 billion, up $5 billion sequentially and $9 billion year-over-year. This increase was mainly driven by strength in gas with customers investing in fleets and signing new long-term service agreements at favorable pricing which drove strong, high-margin services backlog growth.

In Electrification, customers are working to keep pace with growing electricity demand, grid stability needs and national security interests. In 4Q, we grew the segment's total backlog to $35 billion, up $4 billion sequentially and $11 billion year-over-year, representing Electrification's largest growth quarter on a dollar basis in '25. Importantly, we are seeing demand across the segment for grid and data center equipment, both with traditional customers globally and hyperscalers primarily in the U.S. Of note, over 2 billion of Electrification's orders were signed directly for data centers in '25, more than triple the 24 total. We also signed large deals for providing grid resilience and reliability solutions in Saudi Arabia and Australia, an HVDC contract in Germany and a large grid equipment contract in Iraq in the year.

In Wind, we received approximately 3 billion of orders in 4Q, the largest of the year for the segment. In onshore, we continue to receive tech selects for repowering and new units as customers utilize safe harbor and initiate physical work for approximately 10 gigawatts of repowering opportunities in the U.S. The team is focused on what we can control. Taken together, our pathway to substantially more profitable growth is right in front of us. I'll talk about this more on Page 5 with the growth of margin in our equipment backlog, including $8 billion of incremental margin added to our equipment backlog in '25.

I'm also pleased with the returns that our '25 investments are yielding. On the CapEx side, we remain on track to see a substantial step-up in gas turbine output in 3Q '26. We installed over 200 new machines in our factories while adding nearly 1,000 new production workers in '25. We plan on adding an incremental 200 machines and over 500 production workers in '26.

Electrification is on track with its growth, delivering more than 25% revenue growth in '25 with a clear pathway to deliver $13.5 billion to $14 billion in revenue, representing 20% organic growth plus approximately $3 billion from Prolec GE in '26. Our investments in automation and robotics are advancing at scale, and AI is starting to gain momentum in our engineering organizations and back-office functions. Our Advanced Research center is progressing future businesses for us. This includes direct air capture where we already have a facility up and running, real momentum in our solid-state transformer program and a good technical progress on our fuel cell program in Malta, New York.

We are making all of these investments from a position of financial strength, ending the year with almost $9 billion in cash. In '25, we were able to return $3.6 billion to our shareholders while repurchasing more than 8 million of our shares. We continue to see substantial opportunity to create value, including through incremental investments with strong returns.

Few more comments on our financial performance on Page 4. We booked $59 billion of orders, up 34% year-over-year. We also grew our revenue by 9% year-over-year to $38 billion with growth in both equipment and services, while increasing our adjusted EBITDA margin by 210 basis points year-over-year. We generated $3.7 billion in free cash flow, more than double our prior year, while investing more than $2 billion in R&D and CapEx. We are increasing our '26 guidance and by '28 outlook, which now includes Prolec GE. Ken will speak to this more in a moment. And as announced, we are doubling our dividend in '26 versus '25 and have increased our stock buyback authorization to $10 billion from the previously approved $6 billion program.

One of the primary drivers of our conviction on our path forward is the significant growth and margin expansion in our equipment backlog again in '25, which I will touch on in the next page. On Page 5, we show the growth of margin in our equipment backlog consistent with our practice from last January. We started '25 with the expectation to increase our margin dollars in equipment backlog above our run rate in the prior 2 years. We achieved that expectation, adding $8 billion in equipment backlog margin dollars in '25 more than the prior 2 years combined.

We ended '25 with $64 billion in equipment backlog, an increase of approximately 50% year-over-year with an incremental 6 points in equipment margin expansion. This included 11 points of growth in Power, mainly driven by our Gas Power business. We expect significant growth again in Power and Electrification's backlog in '26 at better margins as we convert higher-priced gas slot reservation agreements into orders and benefit from strong demand and pricing for grid equipment. These businesses longer equipment cycles mean that we will not begin delivering on the majority of the higher-margin orders placed in '24 and '25 until '27 and beyond.

In Wind, we expect relatively stable margins this year and for backlog to decrease as we execute on the remaining unprofitable offshore wind backlog and project a smaller onshore wind backlog given the recent softness in U.S. orders. As we noted in December, we see incremental opportunity for the teams to expand margins that are not projected in our backlog today. This includes our operating teams delivering our backlog with variable cost productivity versus known cost today, accelerating capacity additions, leveraging lean to sell incremental slots and a recovery in U.S. onshore wind orders.

In summary, good progress in '25, and we are excited about what's ahead. With continued strong demand and pricing in gas, the strong demand environment across multiple products in Electrification and my expectation for the team to drive variable cost productivity not embedded in our backlog margins today, we expect to add at least as much equipment margin dollars in backlog in '26 as in '25, setting us up for even more profitable growth over the long term. Said differently, in totality, the equipment margin in backlog from '23 to '26, those 4 years will add at least $22 billion in equipment margin driving future profitable growth.

With that, I will turn the call over to Ken for more details on our full year and fourth quarter performance as well as our financial outlook.

Kenneth Parks
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Scott. Turning to Slide 6. We finished 2025 strong with robust orders, growing backlog and revenues, margin expansion and significant free cash flow generation. In the fourth quarter, we booked orders of $22.2 billion, a 65% increase year-over-year and a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 2x. Equipment orders increased 91% while service orders increased 22%. All 3 segments delivered significant orders growth across equipment and services.

As Scott mentioned, our backlog expanded to $150 billion, a year-over-year and sequential increase with equipment backlog increasing to $64 billion, up approximately $21 billion and 50% year-over-year, while our services backlog grew $10 billion or 13% year-over-year to $86 billion led by Power. Revenue increased 2% with services growth in all 3 segments. Equipment revenue was flat year-over-year as 41% growth at Electrification and 8% growth at Power was offset by anticipated lower Wind revenues. Price was positive in all segments.

Adjusted EBITDA grew 6% year-over-year to $1.2 billion, led by Electrification and Power. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 30 basis points with higher price and productivity more than offsetting higher contract losses at offshore wind as well as inflation and investments in growth and innovation. The strong adjusted EBITDA and working capital management drove positive free cash flow of $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter.

Working capital was a $2.3 billion cash benefit driven primarily by down payments on higher orders and slot reservations at Power as well as higher orders at Electrification. Year-over-year, free cash flow increased more than $1 billion driven by higher positive benefits from working capital and stronger adjusted EBITDA partially offset by higher CapEx investments supporting capacity expansion.

We ended 4Q with a healthy cash balance of nearly $9 billion, up approximately $1 billion compared to the third quarter. During the fourth quarter, we returned $1.1 billion of cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. Also, both S&P and Fitch upgraded our investment grade credit ratings and maintained positive outlooks on these upgraded ratings.

In early February, we expect to issue roughly $2.6 billion of debt as we complete the previously announced acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership stake of Prolec GE. We'll remain below 1x gross debt to adjusted EBITDA after this debt issuance. We're encouraged by our strong financial performance in 2025. During the year, we secured $59 billion of orders led by Power equipment orders more than doubling and Electrification equipment orders growing more than 20%. Service orders increased 12% with growth in each segment.

We delivered approximately $38 billion in revenue with 26% growth in Electrification and 10% growth in Power. We increased adjusted EBITDA by 46% and expanded margins 210 basis points driven by price, volume and productivity more than offsetting the impact of growth and innovation investments and the impact of tariffs. Finally, we generated $3.7 billion of free cash flow, a year-over-year increase of $2 billion.

As discussed in prior quarters, we continue to utilize lean to improve our billings and collection processes and drive better cash management and linearity. In 2025, we reduced days sales outstanding by 2 days compared to year-end 2024, resulting in over $200 million of additional free cash flow in 2025. Our growing backlog and healthy margin provides an excellent foundation for continued improvement in our financial performance moving forward.

Turning to Slide 7. Power delivered another strong year led by Gas Power. Power orders in 2025 grew more than 50% given robust demand for gas equipment and growth in services which combined increased backlog by more than $20 billion. Power grew revenue 10% for the year and expanded EBITDA margins by 100 basis points to 14.7% driven by higher price and productivity primarily at Gas Power and Steam Power.

In the fourth quarter, Power orders grew 77% led by Gas Power equipment tripling year-over-year on higher volume and pricing. We booked 41 heavy-duty gas turbines, our largest orders quarter of the year and an increase of more than 70% year-over-year, including 15 HA units. We also secured orders for 18 aeroderivative units, that's 8 more than the fourth quarter of 2024. Power services orders increased 15% as customers continue to invest in their existing fleets.

Revenue increased 5%. Services revenue increased due to higher gas transactional services and nuclear. Equipment revenue increased driven by nuclear as we progress in building our first SMR at the Darlington site with OPG as well as aeroderivative growth at Gas Power. This growth was partially offset by fewer heavy-duty gas turbine shipments primarily due to the improved linearity of deliveries through 2025 compared to 2024. EBITDA margins expanded 160 basis points to 16.9%, mainly driven by price and productivity more than offsetting additional expenses to support capacity investments at gas and R&D at nuclear along with inflation.

Looking to the first quarter of 2026 at Power, we expect continued year-over-year growth in gas equipment orders. We also anticipate high single-digit revenue growth driven by both higher equipment and services. We expect EBITDA margin of approximately 14% to 15% as volume, price and productivity should more than offset additional expenses to support capacity and R&D investments as well as inflation. Given the typical seasonality of services outage, Power revenue and EBITDA margin should be lower sequentially in the first quarter.

Turning to Slide 8. The Wind team delivered similar EBITDA losses in 2025 despite the impact of tariffs driven by improved pricing and higher turbine deliveries at onshore wind, offset by offshore due to the absence of contract cancellation settlement gain recorded in the third quarter of 2024 net of lower year-over-year contract losses. In the fourth quarter, Wind orders increased 53% year-over-year, mainly due to improved onshore equipment orders, primarily outside of North America. However, it's still difficult to call an inflection point in U.S. orders as customers still face permitting delays and tariff uncertainty. At offshore, we remain focused on executing our challenged backlog.

Wind revenue decreased 25% in the quarter given lower onshore equipment deliveries as a result of softening orders over the last year. Wind EBITDA losses were $225 million in the quarter below the fourth quarter of 2024 levels due to higher offshore contract losses, including the impact of the recently issued U.S. order to halt construction of all offshore projects and lower onshore equipment volume, partially offset by improved onshore services.

For the year, Wind losses came in at approximately $600 million, higher than our expectations of approximately $400 million outlined during our December investor event driven by the U.S. government's December 22 stop work order for offshore wind projects. Until that point, the team was on a path to achieve these expectations as they worked to complete the Vineyard Wind project in early January.

The order created a potential delay of at least 90 days, and we accrued in 4Q the estimated incremental contract losses for the extension of installation work. As a reminder, the project has 62 turbines in total, and we've made significant progress with only 10 turbines needing blades and one turbine left to be installed at the time of the stop work order. At any time the order is in place, we are unable to execute the project. This and the resulting incremental costs are excused under a declaration of force majeure prompted by the government action.

We understand that Vineyard Wind received an injunction of the stop work order yesterday. If given permission to resume work soon, we would work to complete installation of the remaining turbines by the end of March. At the end of March, we'll lose access to the vessel required to complete installation of the remaining turbines. If we're unable to complete the installation of the remaining 11 turbines, 2026 Wind revenue could be negatively impacted by approximately $250 million due to our inability to bill the customer for those turbines. Because of our contract loss accruals and protection from incremental costs resulting from the stop work order, we do not anticipate significant additional negative EBITDA impacts for the Vineyard Wind project beyond the amounts already recorded.

For first quarter 2026, we anticipate Wind revenue to decline at high teens rate year-over-year due to lower onshore equipment deliveries. We expect EBITDA losses to be between $300 million and $400 million, down year-over-year primarily as a result of lower onshore equipment volume as well as the approximately $70 million impact of tariffs that started in 2Q of last year.

Looking at 2026, we expect significant improvement in Wind revenue in the second half of the year given only 30% of our expected onshore turbine shipments are in the first half as almost 70% of our 2025 equipment orders came later in the year. Also, the volume we're shipping in the first half has fewer contractual protections for tariffs since we signed these orders before their implementation. As a result, we expect EBITDA losses in the first half to be partially offset by profitability in the second half.

Now turning to Electrification on Slide 9. Strong demand and price resulted in 21% orders growth and 26% revenue growth in 2025. Electrification equipment orders continued outpacing revenue, further increasing the equipment backlog to $31 billion, up more than $10 billion compared to the fourth quarter of 2024. EBITDA margins expanded 560 basis points to 14.9% driven by volume, favorable price and productivity.

In the fourth quarter, orders remained strong at roughly 2.5x revenue and increased 50% year-over-year to approximately $7.4 billion due to growing grid equipment demand, particularly for synchronous condensers, substations partially to support data center growth and switchgear. We saw strong equipment orders growth in the Middle East which increased over $1 billion and in North America which more than doubled year-over-year.

Revenue increased 32% with growth across all regions. We saw strong volume and higher price driven by switchgear and HVDC equipment. EBITDA increased 63% in the quarter with margin expansion of 320 basis points to 17.1%. Margin expansion was led by more profitable volume, productivity and favorable pricing. Looking to the first quarter of 2026, we anticipate continued solid equipment orders with healthy margins. First quarter Electrification revenues should be similar to the fourth quarter of 2025 as we include Prolec GE, resulting in a significant year-over-year increase. We expect continued strong EBITDA margin expansion to 16% to 17% from volume, price and productivity.

Moving to Slide 10 to discuss GE Vernova guidance. For the first quarter of 2026, based on our expectations for the segments, as already outlined, we expect continued year-over-year revenue growth and adjusted EBITDA margin expansion. We also expect to deliver positive free cash flow in the first quarter of 2026 given our ongoing focus on aligning the timing of inflows and outflows along with the impact of down payments which correlate with the timing of orders.

For the full year, we're increasing our 2026 guidance provided in December to now include the Prolec GE acquisition. We now expect full year 2026 revenue to be in the range of $44 billion to $45 billion, up from $41 billion to $42 billion with growth in both services and equipment. We continue to expect adjusted EBITDA margins of 11% to 13% as we deliver our growing backlog with favorable pricing plus improved operational execution. We're also increasing our free cash flow guidance to between $5 billion and $5.5 billion, up from $4.5 billion to $5 billion.

By segment, we continue to expect 16% to 18% of organic revenue growth in Power driven by Gas Power. We anticipate Power EBITDA margins to be between 16% and 18% as positive price, increased volume leverage and productivity more than offset inflationary impacts and the additional expenses for AI, automation and increased production. In Electrification, we now anticipate revenue to be between $13.5 billion and $14 billion, which represents 20% organic growth plus approximately $3 billion of revenue from Prolec GE. We continue to expect EBITDA margin to expand to 17% to 19% as we deliver our more profitable backlog.

In Wind, organic revenue is expected to be down low double digits due to decreased onshore equipment revenues given the softness in orders, but we expect EBITDA losses to be approximately $400 million in 2026 which is consistent with our expectations discussed in December as improvement in onshore wind services and offshore wind offset the lower onshore equipment volume. We expect 2026 GEV adjusted EBITDA to be more second half weighted than 2025 with the highest revenue and EBITDA in the fourth quarter of '26. We expect higher second half Gas Power revenue as we ship more gas turbines in the second half of the year as we increase annual production capacity to approximately 20 gigawatts starting in midyear '26.

We also anticipate typical gas services seasonality with the highest outage volume in the fourth quarter. We continue to expect Electrification EBITDA to increase sequentially through the year following the completion of the Prolec GE acquisition. And as mentioned earlier in Wind, we expect higher second half onshore turbine shipments given our recent orders profile and better services profitability. At Corporate, costs are typically uneven across quarters due to compensation timing and portfolio activity at our financial services business. We expect full year 2026 corporate costs to be between $450 million and $500 million as we continue investing in AI, robotics and automation to drive productivity over the medium and long-term.

Turning to Slide 11. We're also increasing our by 2028 outlook to include Prolec GE. We now project at least $56 billion of total revenue by 2028, up from $52 billion, implying a low teens growth CAGR through 2028 and we still expect to achieve adjusted EBITDA margins of 20%. We're increasing our cumulative GE Vernova free cash flow generation from '25 to '28 by approximately $2 billion to at least $24 billion, which incorporates nearly $1 billion of incremental CapEx from Prolec GE to support increased transformer production. This brings our expected cumulative CapEx and R&D investments through this period to approximately $11 billion.

At Electrification, by incorporating Prolec GE into our by '28 outlook, we now expect approximately $4 billion of incremental revenue on top of high teens organic growth, and we maintain expectations for 22% EBITDA margins. We're not including any synergies from the Prolec acquisition into our updated outlook, but we see real opportunities in both revenues as well as costs. Overall, the combination of rising demand, combined with the consistently stronger execution, investments into our business and the acquisition of Prolec GE sets us up nicely going forward.

With that, I'll turn it back to Scott.

Scott Strazik
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Ken. And to wrap a few themes. We are executing well in the early stages of our multiyear growth trajectory. This is evidenced in the $150 billion backlog we entered '26 with versus roughly $100 billion in backlog that we entered '22 with after the announcement of our spin from GE in November of '21. Just think about that for a moment. Just over 4 years ago, we announced our separation from GE. And today, our backlog is 50% larger than it was upon the time of the spin announcement.

The steepness of our growth trajectory is probably best evidenced in our Electrification segment, which I often say has been the largest beneficiary of GEV working as one, purpose-built, focused company, now better linking the commercial muscle and customer relationships of our Power and Wind businesses with the Electrification solutions we provide. Electrification generated about $5 billion in revenue in '22, and we now expect that number to be $13.5 billion to $14 billion in '26, and we are just getting started. But this isn't about growth for growth's sake. In the last 3 years alone, we've more than doubled our GEV equipment backlog, adding over $14 billion in future margin dollars in this backlog while adding $13 billion in high-margin services backlog over the same period.

On the operations front, we are improving but culturally hunting every day for waste and opportunities to serve our customers in a more efficient manner. Take our transformer product line inside Electrification. Our labor hours were up 39% in 4Q with output increasing more than 50% year-over-year as we drive significant productivity at these sites. And we now see real opportunity to apply a similar playbook to the 5 large factories we are acquiring with Prolec GE.

In onshore wind, our critical, customer-facing events are down over 50% in '25 versus '24 and the business is well positioned to deliver a much more profitable services business in '26. But we also are running the business with the humility to acknowledge we continue to have real opportunity to improve on our execution in areas like offshore wind as we complete our only 2 projects. We are doing all of this while investing across the near, mid and long-term horizons. Our customers and investors will see substantial value creation from our increased gas turbine output starting in 3Q '26. These incremental returns are right in front of us, less than 180 days from now.

Other investments we are making are just starting to take shape, but I have high confidence that our automation and AI investment returns will grow in '27, becoming a bigger part of our margin expansion in '28. These investment returns are not included in our '28 financial outlook today. And as we invest in these time horizons, we also are investing in businesses for the next decade. We expect SMR to contribute meaningfully to the top line of our Power business in the next decade. We're making real progress in construction of our first plant in Ontario today, while continuing to invest in the engineering to drive down the cost of the product for the long term.

Nuclear was a drag on Power's '25 margins and we expect '26 to be directionally similar. But our customers and investors will see this value in the next decade. Similar theme with our solid-state transformer product line. We've completed production of our first unit and just 2 weeks ago, I visited our new testing facility in upstate New York that we'll be using to test and validate the performance of this first unit before delivering the completed solution to our hyperscaler customer in the autumn of this year.

And we can do all of this while returning substantial capital to our shareholders as evidenced in our $3.6 billion return of capital in '25 and our announced increase in our dividend and share buyback program. So we entered '26 pumped up about the company we are creating, the opportunities to serve our customers and deliver returns for our owners, not only in '26, but through cycles and for the long-term.

With that, I'll hand it to Michael for the Q&A part of the call.

Michael Lapides
Vice President of Investor Relations

Before we open the line, I'd ask everyone in the queue to consider your fellow analysts and ask one question so we can get to as many people as possible. Please return in the queue if you have follow-ups. Operator, please open the line.

