Canada Goose Holdings Inc. (GOOS:CA) Q2 2026 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Neil Bowden - Chief Financial Officer
Dani Reiss - Chairman & CEO
Carrie Baker - President of Brand & Commercial
Beth Clymer - President & COO

Conference Call Participants

Oliver Chen - TD Cowen, Research Division
Jonathan Komp - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Robert Bischoff - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. My name is Amy, and I will be your conference operator for today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Canada Goose Inc. Second Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Neil Bowden, Chief Financial Officer. You may begin.

Neil Bowden
Chief Financial Officer

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on the Canada Goose Q2 Fiscal '26 Earnings Call. Today, you'll hear from myself, Dani Reiss, our Chairman and CEO; Carrie Baker, President of Brand and Commercial; and Beth Clymer, President and Chief Operating Officer. We'll start with prepared remarks and then answer questions.

Today's presentation will contain forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions and therefore, subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to update these statements, except as required by law. You can read about these assumptions, risks and uncertainties in our press release issued this morning and our filings with the U.S. and Canadian regulators. These documents are also available on the Investor Relations section of our website.

We report in Canadian dollars. So the amounts discussed today are in Canadian dollars unless otherwise indicated. Please note, the financial results described on today's call will compare second quarter results ended September 28, 2025, with the same period ended September 29, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Dani.

Dani Reiss
Chairman & CEO

Thanks, Neil, and good morning, everyone. We are extremely pleased to share with you today our results of our second quarter. Our core direct-to-consumer business continued to show strong momentum across the board. Direct-to-consumer comparable sales grew 10% year-over-year with positive comps in all regions and notable bright spots in the United States and China. This marks 10 consecutive months of positive comps beginning last December as our operating imperatives drive stronger consumer engagement and results. I'll talk more about that in a moment.

Wholesale represented about half of our total revenue in Q2, which is typically our largest wholesale quarter. Revenue for the quarter was in line with our expectations, slightly down year-over-year and flat through the first half. We see strong positive leading indicators in the channel with stronger sell-through globally, improved inventory health and greater product diversity and excitement from our partners about our upcoming collections.

Our continued top line strength is a result of disciplined execution across our 4 operating imperatives. First, expanding our product offering to enhance year-round relevance. Revenue from new styles as a percentage of total revenue more than doubled year-over-year, driven by new products in both our downfilled and non-downfill categories. This drove notable growth in our DTC channel with revenue from newness now representing roughly 40% of DTC sales for the quarter compared to 10% last year. We see significant runway for growth through product newness. Striking the right balance between new products and a very strong core is critical to our long-term success. Apparel remained our fastest-growing category as we continue to strengthen our year-round relevance and reach a broader range of consumer lifestyles and environments.

Second, building brand heat through focused marketing investments. Our fall/winter 2025 campaign presents our brand with a fresh perspective rooted in both city life and the outdoors, amplifying the hero products through compelling storytelling, bold design and seasonal relevance. We launched an exciting new product collaboration with Canadian basketball player and our global brand ambassador, Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, NBA Champion and MVP. This was a cultural moment fusing style and heritage in a way that speaks to today's global luxury consumer.

We also announced an exciting new global brand ambassador, acclaimed actor Hsu Kuang-han. His impact in APAC and Mainland China, in particular, have been immediate, driving engagement, reach and relevance. Later this month, our Snow Goose collection returns at the height of our peak season with another bold statement of who we are and where we're going. We are speaking more frequently to our consumers, and it is really resonating.

Third, driving business expansion through strategic channel development. We continue to deliver an elevated experience at every touch point. The direct-to-consumer comparable sales growth has been consistently strong, showcasing our integrated approach to store execution, inventory availability and enhanced more frequent marketing activities. Store conversion rates have increased year-over-year in every region for the third quarter in a row, a tangible indicator that our renewed focus on disciplined retail execution is working.

We also strengthened our store network this quarter, opening one store in Macau and completing 2 strategic relocations, one in Beijing and most notably a new Paris store on Champs- lys es. We are thrilled about our new location in Paris, strong traffic and luxurious adjacencies and have introduced an elevated store design. I personally attended the grand opening just last week, and 2 things stuck out to me. How busy the store was during the day with a full mix of consumers eager for our product and its elegant design elevated unmistakably Canada Goose.

In wholesale, we are evolving our brand presence with more relevant assortments and elevated visual storytelling. This quarter, we unveiled a new brand expression through key in-store activations such as the Fall/Winter '25 Chilliwack immersive pop-up with an archive discovery experience at Selfridges in London and Galeries Lafayette in Paris. With these activations, we're bringing our brand to life in a consistent way everywhere.

Our fourth operating [ imperative ] is operating efficiently with pace and accountability. Neil is going to talk about this one in more detail, but I want to emphasize that we are very pleased with our top line results so far this year, although our margin in the first half was pressured year-over-year. This was deliberate and driven by key investments in marketing and in our stores that will fuel growth in the second half and beyond.

We are very happy to report that the second half is off to a strong start with positive DTC comps in October. We are entering our peak season well positioned and with confidence across both store and e-commerce channels and with a clear focus on translating that progress into sustained profitable growth and stronger margins.

In closing, the combination of more consistent marketing, a stronger mix of in-season product newness and sharper channel execution is driving improved financial performance and deeper consumer engagement. I'm confident in our direction and proud of the foundation that we've built for long-term growth. On behalf of our senior leadership team, I want to again thank our Canada Goose teams around the world for their passion for the brand and relentless preparation for our peak season.

And with that, I'll turn it over to Neil.

Neil Bowden
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Dani. Before diving into the financial results, I want to cover 2 key points to frame our financial performance in Q2. First, we are very pleased with our top line results, particularly strength in the DTC channel. A year ago, we reported weak comps, and we're in the early stage of implementing a number of changes to our D2C operations, which began delivering results late in the third quarter of fiscal '25. We look at the performance over the last 3 quarters as evidence that those changes across our network are working. The channel mix is where we want to be. Strong D2C performance underpinned by comp growth, wholesale performance meeting internal expectations through H1 and reduced emphasis on activity in our other channel.

Second, given our SG&A profile this year, particularly spend in our stores, marketing and product creation, our EBIT dollars and margin are lower than they were a year ago in both Q2 and the first half of the year. On the back of stronger-than-expected comp performance and tighter cost control, we are well set up for the balance of the year. That said, we are focused on operating margin expansion, and I'll cover the puts and takes as we move through these comments.

Okay. Let's get into the details. Revenue for the second quarter was $273 million, 2% higher than $268 million in Q2 of last year, but down 1% on a constant currency basis. Now some color on channel performance before getting into the regional results. All the revenue figures I cite are on a constant currency basis. D2C revenue was up 21% with sustained strong performance in all our regions and across both stores and e-commerce. Channel growth was fueled by direct-to-consumer comparable sales growth of 10%, led by North America and APAC, while EMEA was slightly positive. That's 3 consecutive quarters of positive comps, a clear indicator of sustained momentum and solid execution of our operating imperatives.

Wholesale revenue was down 5%, in line with our expectations and down 3% on a year-to-date basis as we continue to focus on elevating brand positioning within the channel and maintaining a healthy inventory position. You heard us say over the past few quarters that we expect it to be stable this year, and this is exactly where we are as we exit H1.

Revenue in our other channel totaled $10 million compared to $27 million last year, reflecting an intentional pullback in friends and family events in the first half of the year. We expect somewhat limited activity in Q3, given our focus on executing in the most important quarter of the year.

Now commentary on the geographic revenue trends in Q2. In North America, outstanding D2C comp performance in Q2 was the most important factor. The brand is performing very strongly in both Canada and the U.S., where stores and e-commerce comps grew in the low teens. Channel mix away from both other revenue due to fewer activities and timing of wholesale shipments led to the regional revenue being down 8% year-over-year.

In APAC, revenue increased 20%, driven by growth across both DTC and wholesale channels. The region delivered high single-digit comp growth during the quarter with Mainland China leading the way. Our performance in this market remains solid, even as consumer sentiment in China is somewhat mixed. Demand in Japan was robust with substantial revenue growth supported by new store openings and a full quarter of performance from our flagship in Tokyo Ginza that opened late in Q2 fiscal '25. E-commerce performance in the region was solid on a comp basis and was further aided by growth in our Douyin channel.

In EMEA, revenue was down 7% year-over-year. The trends in this region have been consistent, strong performance on the continent and a more challenging consumer environment in the U.K. With this backdrop, we delivered slightly positive comps accompanied by a timing shift in the wholesale order book to later in the year as compared to fiscal '25. We remain focused on optimizing conversion in our channels and marketing execution to mitigate those trends.

Moving down the income statement. Let's turn to gross profit, which was $6 million higher than the prior year. Gross margin expanded 110 basis points year-over-year to 62.4%, primarily due to favorable channel mix, more DTC and less revenue in the other channel, partially offset by higher product costs and a higher mix of apparel.

Shifting to SG&A. Reported SG&A expense for the quarter was $188 million, an increase of $25 million or 16% year-over-year. Excluding the quarterly earn-out charge for our knitwear manufacturer, SG&A as a percentage of revenue was 67.6%, up 730 basis points year-over-year, reflecting planned investments in key revenue-driving areas such as marketing and stores ahead of peak. This was mitigated somewhat by corporate SG&A leverage. The increase in marketing expenditure this quarter reflects our deliberate shift toward upper funnel activity to build cultural relevance and brand desirability as well as a more balanced approach to our marketing calendar throughout the year following a quieter period in H1 last year.

We've continued to invest in our stores with a focus on labor and training to prepare for peak season as well as key store openings, which led to some deleverage in Q2. These investments are partially offset by leverage from our corporate expenses, which are growing at a much slower rate than revenue, even while we're adding talent in areas like product creation. We recognize there's still meaningful runway to improve SG&A costs as a percentage of revenue. And while we continue to invest in key areas that will deliver long-term value, we remain disciplined and thoughtful about how and where we spend.

In our fourth operating imperative, operating efficiently with pace and accountability, we continue to enhance the flexibility and agility of our operations to better support growth. Here is an example of one such win. In July, we closed our largest U.S. warehouse and nearly all shipments to North American retail stores are now fulfilled from Canada. This gives us a single larger pool of inventory, allowing us to deliver products to stores more quickly while reducing overhead costs. For clarity, this was neither in reaction to any tariff concerns nor does it change our trade risk profile based on what we know today. It was about simplifying our operations and reducing costs.

With revenue growth and gross margin expansion offset by planned SG&A growth, our adjusted EBIT was a loss of $14 million for the quarter, which decreased from a profit of $3 million in Q2 last year. Adjusted net loss attributable to shareholders was $13 million or $0.14 per share compared to a profit of $5 million or $0.05 per share in Q2 of fiscal '25.

We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet. Inventory was $461 million, down 3% from last year, reflecting stronger consumer demand and tighter inventory management. Inventory turnover was 0.9x, slightly improved compared to the same period last year. Net debt at quarter end was $707 million compared to $826 million in the second quarter of fiscal '25 as net working capital improvements over the past 18 months, particularly inventory, delivered operating cash flows that led to reduced short-term borrowings compared to the same period last year.

During Q2, we successfully amended our term loan by extending the maturity until 2032, solidifying our capital structure. Our net debt leverage was 2.6x adjusted EBITDA compared with 2.9x adjusted EBITDA at the same time last year. CapEx in the second quarter was higher versus the prior year, as planned, given our fiscal '26 store opening program. As we've said, we'll be opportunistic in adding stores as our confidence in delivering comp sales growth increases, which has been demonstrated around the world for the past 3 quarters. We enter peak season with confidence based on execution to date and our plans ahead but with our collective heads down working towards continued success in the second half of fiscal '26.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to our operator. Operator, you can open the line for questions.