HCA Healthcare, Inc. (HCA) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Frank Morgan - Vice President of Investor Relations
Samuel Hazen - CEO & Director
Mike Marks - CFO & Executive VP

Conference Call Participants

Albert Rice - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Ann Hynes - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Pito Chickering - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Benjamin Mayo - Leerink Partners LLC, Research Division
Brian Tanquilut - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Benjamin Hendrix - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Matthew Gillmor - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Andrew Mok - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Gabrielle Ingoglia - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Ryan Langston - TD Cowen, Research Division
Scott Fidel - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Raj Kumar - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Stephen Baxter - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Joshua Raskin - Nephron Research LLC
Jason Cassorla - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Kevin Fischbeck - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to HCA Healthcare Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Frank Morgan. Please go ahead, sir.

Frank Morgan
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning, and welcome to everyone on today's call. With me this morning is our CEO, Sam Hazen; and CFO, Mike Marks. Sam and Mike will provide some prepared remarks, and then we'll take questions. Before I turn the call over to Sam, let me remind everyone that should today's call contain any forward-looking statements, they're based on management's current expectations. Numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those that might be expressed today. More information on forward-looking statements and these factors are listed in today's press release and in our various SEC filings.

On this morning's call, we may reference measures such as adjusted EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. A table providing supplemental information on adjusted EBITDA and reconciling net income attributable to HCA Healthcare, Inc. is included in today's release. This morning's call is being recorded, and a replay of the call will be available later today.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Sam.

Samuel Hazen
CEO & Director

Good morning, and thank you for joining the call. We closed out the year with strong results that were mostly consistent with the previous quarters in 2025. We delivered our 19th straight quarter of volume growth, reflecting continued solid demand across our markets, the benefit of network investments and improved results in capacity management, quality patient outcomes and stakeholder engagement.

Revenue increased 6.7% compared to the prior year quarter and with disciplined expense management, margins improved both sequentially and year-over-year. For the quarter, net income attributable to HCA Healthcare increased almost 31%. Diluted earnings per share as adjusted increased 29%, and adjusted EBITDA increased around 11% versus the prior year period.

Reflecting on 2025, this was another successful year for HCA Healthcare. Throughout the year, our teams executed at a high level, we gained ground with our strategic agenda and we stayed focused on the fundamentals. Additionally, we invested significantly in network expansion, workforce development and clinical capabilities. These investments helped deliver positive outcomes across the HCA Healthcare system. As a result, our networks had approximately 47 million patient encounters during the year, representing a record level of patient care activity for the company. I want to thank my colleagues for their outstanding work, their dedication to our patients and their unyielding commitment to our mission.

Now let me transition to the policy environment. We continue to monitor several policy matters, including the expired enhanced premium tax credits, the ongoing developments related to Medicaid supplemental payment programs and the Rural Health Transformation program. These matters continue to evolve. As we learn more, we will provide updates at the appropriate times. That said, we believe our core business remains strong with forecasted volumes in our long-term 2% to 3% growth range.

This past year, we strengthened the company's resiliency program in 3 important areas, and this gives us confidence that we can navigate effectively through these policy dynamics. The first was organizational. In this area, we added new capabilities that were aligned around the company's operating imperatives. Next, we strengthened the management systems to enhance execution. And lastly, we ramped up leadership development.

The second area relates to competitive positioning. We increased hospital capacity, clinical service offerings and outpatient facilities across our networks to create greater patient access and address the needs of our communities.

The third was financial. Here, we advanced our cost management agenda and improved our balance sheet with strong cash flow and disciplined capital allocation. These results allowed us to invest significantly in our networks, our people and our AI and tech agenda.

In closing, we are well positioned to move forward as we begin 2026. We continue to believe the HCA way of combining high-quality local provider networks with the distinct capabilities, talent and scale of a national health care system creates sustained value for our stakeholders and allows us to deliver more effectively on our mission.

With that, I will turn over the call to Mike for more details on the quarter and our outlook for 2026.

Mike Marks
CFO & Executive VP

Thank you, Sam, and good morning, everyone. We were pleased with the results of the fourth quarter of 2025, which reflected strong operational performance combined with disciplined capital allocation. Let me note some same facility volume comparisons to fourth quarter of 2025 versus fourth quarter of 2024. Admissions increased 2.4% and equivalent admissions increased 2.5%, in line with our expectations of 2% to 3% growth. Inpatient surgeries were flat, and outpatient surgical volume was down slightly.

ER visits increased 50 basis points. Overall respiratory volumes had no material impact on year-over-year volume.

Regarding payer mix for the quarter, same facility total commercial equivalent admissions increased 1.1% over the prior year, with exchanges growing 2.5% and commercial, excluding exchanges, increasing approximately 1%. Medicare increased 3.5% and Medicaid increased 2.2%. Same facility net revenue per equivalent admission increased 2.9% versus prior year quarter. The 80 basis point improvement in adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was driven primarily by solid revenue growth, good results in labor management and improvements in other operating expenses. Adjusted EBITDA grew approximately 11% compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to strong operating performance and an approximate $150 million increase in our hurricane markets.

As we've said in the past, Medicaid supplemental payment programs are complex, variable in timing and do not fully cover our cost to treat Medicaid patients. Due to a retro payment from Virginia in the fourth quarter, the net impact of supplemental payments was approximately flat versus prior year quarter. Now let me discuss full year results for 2025, which reflected good demand growth in our markets. On a same facility basis, we posted growth in revenue of 6.6%, equivalent admissions of 2.4% and net revenue per equivalent admission of 4.1% versus prior year.

Consolidated adjusted EBITDA increased 12.1% over prior year, and we delivered a 90 basis point improvement in adjusted EBITDA margin. The net benefit from supplemental payments increased by $420 million. Hurricane-impacted markets contributed approximately $125 million in adjusted EBITDA growth. Diluted earnings per share as adjusted increased 28.5%.

Moving to capital allocation. Capital expenditures totaled $1.5 billion in the quarter and $4.9 billion for the year. Additionally, we purchased $2.6 billion of our outstanding shares during the quarter and $10 billion in the year. We paid $162 million in dividends for the quarter and $679 million for the year.

Cash flow from operations was $2.4 billion in the quarter and $12.6 billion for the year. This represents a 20% increase in operating cash flow in 2025 over full year 2024. Our debt to adjusted EBITDA leverage remained at the low end of our target range. Given our strong balance sheet, we are well positioned for the future.

So with that, let me speak to our 2026 guidance. We expect revenues to range between $76.5 billion and $80 billion. We expect adjusted EBITDA to range between $15.55 billion and $16.45 billion. We expect net income attributable to HCA Healthcare to range between $6.5 billion and $7 billion. We expect diluted earnings per share to range between $29.10 and $31.50. Further, we continued to see opportunities to deploy capital and drive organic growth in our markets through investing in high acuity programs, increasing our network through new access points and building new inpatient capacity.

As a result of these opportunities, we have increased our capital spending range from $5 billion to $5.5 billion. Our 2026 guidance includes the following assumption. Growth in equivalent admissions between 2% and 3%, an adverse impact on adjusted EBITDA between $600 million and $900 million related to the health insurance exchanges. This includes impact from administrative reforms enacted in 2025, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act and the expiration of the enhanced premium tax credits. We expect an offset to this exchange headwind of approximately $400 million through resiliency initiatives designed to generate efficiencies throughout the organization.

We anticipate decline in supplemental payment programs' net benefit between $250 million and $450 million. The expected decline in net benefit is driven primarily by Tennessee's program reverting back to 4 quarters of net benefit versus 6 quarters in 2025, a pause on one specific program in Texas and a onetime retro payment from Virginia. This guidance does not include any potential impact in 2026 from additional approvals of grandfathered applications. We do not anticipate any significant growth to adjusted EBITDA from our hurricane-impacted markets over prior year.

We expect full year margins to be slightly above 20%, consistent with 2025 and cash flow from operations to range between $12 billion and $13 billion.

Lastly, we plan to continue investing in our technology and digital innovation strategies, which we expect will deliver long-term value and help position the company for the future. Considering these factors, our overall 2026 adjusted EBITDA guidance reflects strength and momentum in operations, increased investment in strategic initiatives, consistent business fundamentals and a disciplined approach to capital allocation. Given what we see today, including the demand in our markets, our resiliency program and our digital transformation initiatives, we remain comfortable that we will perform within our long-term plan over time.

As noted in our release this morning, our Board of Directors have authorized a new $10 billion share repurchase program. We currently anticipate completing a majority of the existing authorization in 2026, subject to market conditions and other factors. In addition, our Board declared an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.72 to $0.78 per share.

In conclusion, 2025 marked another year of solid operational performance for HCA, and we believe that we are well positioned for continued progress and success in 2026.

With that, I will turn the call over to Frank for questions.

Frank Morgan
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Mike. [Operator Instructions]. [ Coby ], you may now give instructions to those who would like to ask the questions.

