The Home Depot, Inc. (HD) Q3 2026 Earnings Call November 18, 2025 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Isabel Janci - VP of Investor Relations & Treasurer
Edward Decker - Chairman, President & CEO
Ann-Marie Campbell - Senior Executive Vice President
William Bastek - Executive Vice President of Merchandising
Richard McPhail - Executive VP & CFO
Michael Rowe - Executive Vice President of Pro

Conference Call Participants

Simeon Gutman - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Zachary Fadem - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Michael Lasser - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Christopher Horvers - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Zhihan Ma - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Seth Sigman - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Charles Grom - Gordon Haskett Research Advisors
Steven Forbes - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Steven Zaccone - Citigroup Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to The Home Depot Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Isabel Janci. Please go ahead.

Isabel Janci
VP of Investor Relations & Treasurer

Thank you, Christine, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Home Depot's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. Joining us on our call today are Ted Decker, Chair, President and CEO; Ann-Marie Campbell, Senior Executive Vice President; Billy Bastek, Executive Vice President of Merchandising; and Richard McPhail, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Following our prepared remarks, the call will be open for questions. Questions will be limited to analysts and investors. [Operator Instructions] If we are unable to get to your question during the call, please call our Investor Relations department at (770) 384-2387. Before I turn the call over to Ted, let me remind you that today's press release and the presentations made by our executives include forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws, including as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the factors identified in the release in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Today's presentation will also include certain non-GAAP measures, including, but not limited to, adjusted operating margin, adjusted diluted earnings per share and return on invested capital. For a reconciliation of these and other non-GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings press release and our website.

Now let me turn the call over to Ted.

Edward Decker
Chairman, President & CEO

Thank you, Isabel, and good morning, everyone. Sales for the third quarter were $41.4 billion, up 2.8% from the same period last year. Comp sales increased 0.2% from the same period last year and comps in the U.S. increased 0.1%. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $3.74 in the third quarter compared to $3.78 in the third quarter last year.

In local currency, Canada and Mexico posted positive comps. Our results missed our expectations, primarily due to the lack of storms in the third quarter, which resulted in greater-than-expected pressure in certain categories. Additionally, while underlying demand in the business remained relatively stable sequentially, an expected increase in demand in the third quarter did not materialize. We believe that consumer uncertainty and continued pressure in housing are disproportionately impacting home improvement demand. Today, we've revised our guidance for fiscal 2025, which Richard will take you through in a moment. We remain focused on controlling what we can control.

Our teams are executing at a high level, and we believe we are growing market share. We continue to invest across the business, supporting our associates and delivering the value proposition expected by our customers. In September, SRS completed the acquisition of GMS, a leading distributor of specialty building products, including drywall, ceiling and steel framing related to remodeling and construction projects. GMS further enhances SRS' position as a leading multi-category building materials distributor, bringing differentiated capabilities, product categories and customer relationships that are highly complementary to SRS' existing business. We could not be more excited to welcome GMS to the family and look forward to bringing a truly differentiated value proposition to our Pro customers.

We're excited to see many of you in person in a few weeks at our investor conference at the New York Stock Exchange on December 9. We will update you on our strategic initiatives, our unique positioning in the marketplace, our investments and the traction we are seeing with our customers as we continue to position ourselves to win market share in both the near and long term. In closing, I would like to thank our store associates, merchants, supply chain teams and vendor partners who continue to take care of our customers and execute at a high level.

With that, let me turn the call over to Ann.

Ann-Marie Campbell
Senior Executive Vice President

Thanks, Ted, and good morning, everyone. Our associates did an incredible job focusing on our customers and delivering exceptional customer service in our stores during the quarter. We continue to lean in on initiatives that help our associates do their jobs more effectively while also driving productivity in our operations.

I'm going to highlight our progress across a number of initiatives that have helped improve the associate experience and are resulting in a better customer experience and increased customer satisfaction. Last year, we rolled out our freight flow application to all stores, which has improved our freight processes and driven efficiency in all operations. This initiative has significantly improved our cartons per hour metric, resulting in greater efficiency in our onload and pack out process. We also continue to focus on on-shelf availability and through computer vision and Sidekick, we have reached record in-stock and on-shelf availability levels.

Lastly, our faster fulfillment efforts leveraging both our stores and distribution centers that you've heard about over the last few quarters have driven an over 400 basis point increase in our customer satisfaction scores. In addition, we continue to focus on our Pro ecosystem, maturing the new capabilities we have built for pros working on complex projects while enhancing the tools we have to serve pros. We are pleased with the progress we are seeing as our customers engage with our capabilities. There are 2 new tools we have deployed over the last several months that help us differentiate our offering. The first is a new project planning tool that we launched in September, which allows our pros to create and manage material lift and track orders and deliveries. The second tool, blueprint takeoffs, will transform the way pros plan and prepare for their projects. This new tool leverages advanced AI and proprietary algorithms to deliver accurate blueprint takeoffs and material estimates in record time.

Pros can then quickly and easily purchase all materials they need for their project through The Home Depot, simplifying this complex process by going through a single supplier. This technology replaces a manual intensive process that took weeks to complete, increasing accuracy and reliability. Adding this advanced technology to our ecosystem of capabilities to better serve the pro working on complex projects will further enable us to be the one-stop shop for all project needs from initial planning to material delivery, saving our pros time and money. We look forward to seeing you in a few weeks in New York to provide a holistic view of how our full ecosystem is resonating with our pros and allowing us to gain traction and win in the market.

With that, let me turn the call over to Billy.

William Bastek
Executive Vice President of Merchandising

Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone. I want to start by also thanking all of our associates and supplier partners for their ongoing commitment to serving our customers and communities. As you heard from Ted, the underlying demand in the quarter was relatively similar to what we saw in the second quarter. However, our results were below our expectations, largely due to a lack of storms relative to historic norms, which most notably impacted areas of the business such as roofing, power generation and plywood to name a few.

Turning to our merchandising department comp performance for the third quarter. 9 of our 16 merchandising departments posted positive comps, including kitchen, bath, outdoor garden, storage, electrical, plumbing, millwork, hardware and appliances. During the third quarter, our comp average ticket increased 1.8% and comp transactions decreased 1.6%. The growth in comp average ticket primarily reflects a greater mix of higher ticket items, customers continuing to trade up for new and innovative products as well as modest price increases. Big ticket comp transactions for those over $1,000 were positive 2.3% compared to the third quarter of last year. We were pleased with the performance we saw in categories such as appliances, portable power and gypsum. However, we continue to see softer engagement in larger discretionary projects where customers typically use financing to fund renovation projects.

During the third quarter, both Pro and DIY comp sales were positive and relatively in line with one another. We saw strength across Pro heavy categories like gypsum, insulation, siding and plumbing. In DIY, we saw strength across our seasonal product offerings, including live goods, hardscapes and other garden products. Turning to total company online comp sales. Sales leveraging our digital platforms increased approximately 11% compared to the third quarter of last year. We're excited about the continued success we're seeing across our interconnected platforms. Our faster delivery speeds are resonating with customers and driving greater engagement and sales. We know that as we remove friction from the experience, we see incremental customer engagement leading to greater sales across all points of interaction.

During the third quarter, we hosted our annual supplier partnership meeting where we focused on how we will continue to work together to bring the best products to market, deliver innovative solutions that simplify the project and offer great value with best-in-class features and benefits. At the event, we recognized a number of vendors across categories who continue to transform the industry with the innovation they bring to our customers on a daily basis. They include Leedarson, Cobra Tork, Feather River, Milwaukee, RYOBI, Frigidaire, Makita, Traeger and many more. We are proud of the innovation and partnership that our suppliers bring to The Home Depot and the value we're able to offer both our Pro and DIY customers.

As we turn our attention to the fourth quarter, we're looking forward to the excitement we will bring with our annual holiday, Black Friday and Gift Center events. In our Gift Center event, we continue to lean into brands that matter most for our customers with our assortment of Milwaukee, RYOBI, Makita, DEWALT, RIDGID, Diablo, Husky and more. We'll have something for everyone, whether it's our wide assortment of cordless RYOBI tools or Milwaukee hand tools. And in appliances for Black Friday, we have exciting offers on LG, Samsung, Bosch, Whirlpool, GE and Frigidaire. Our assortment includes multiple exclusive products like LG stainless steel french door refrigerator with Craft Ice and Frigidaire's new Gallery dishwasher with a wash cycle time of only 50 minutes.

This quarter, I'm also excited to announce the addition of PGT Windows to our wide assortment of exclusive retail brands, including American Craftsman and Andersen Windows. PGT's impact-resistant windows are engineered to meet some of the highest performance standards in the industry, reducing storm damage risk, providing energy efficiency, UV protection and sound reduction, and they will be exclusive to The Home Depot in the big box channel. Our merchandising organization remains focused on being our customers' advocate for value. This means continuing to provide a broad assortment of best-in-class products that are in stock and available for our customers. It is the power of our vendor relationships, coupled with our best-in-class merchant organization that allows us to offer our customers the best brands with the most innovation to solve pain points, increase functionality and enhance performance at the best value in the market.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Richard.

Richard McPhail
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Billy, and good morning, everyone. In the third quarter, total sales were $41.4 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion or approximately 3% from last year. Total sales include approximately $900 million from the recent acquisition of GMS, which represents approximately 8 weeks of sales in the quarter. During the third quarter, our total company comps were positive 0.2% with comps of positive 2% in August, positive 0.5% in September and negative 1.5% in October. Comps in the U.S. were positive 0.1% for the quarter with comps of positive 2.2% in August, positive 0.3% in September and negative 1.7% in October. For the quarter and in local currency, Canada and Mexico posted positive comp.

In the third quarter, our gross margin was 33.4%, flat compared to the third quarter of 2024, which was in line with our expectations. During the third quarter, operating expense as a percent of sales increased approximately 55 basis points to 20.5% compared to the third quarter of 2024. Our operating expense included transaction fees related to the acquisition of GMS, but otherwise were in line with our expectations. Our operating margin for the third quarter was 12.9% compared to 13.5% in the third quarter of 2024. In the quarter, pretax intangible asset amortization was $158 million. Excluding the intangible asset amortization in the quarter, our adjusted operating margin for the third quarter was 13.3% compared to 13.8% in the third quarter of 2024. Interest and other expense for the third quarter was $596 million, which is in line with our expectations.

In the third quarter, our effective tax rate was 24.3% compared to 24.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2024. Our diluted earnings per share for the third quarter were $3.62 compared to $3.67 in the third quarter of 2024. Excluding intangible asset amortization, our adjusted diluted earnings per share for the third quarter were $3.74 compared to $3.78 in the third quarter of 2024. During the third quarter, we opened 3 new stores, bringing our total store count to 2,356. At the end of the quarter, merchandise inventories were $26.2 billion, up approximately $2.3 billion compared to the third quarter of 2024, and inventory turns were 4.5x, down from 4.8x last year.

Turning to capital allocation. During the third quarter, we invested approximately $900 million back into our business in the form of capital expenditures and we paid approximately $2.3 billion in dividends to our shareholders. Computed on the average of beginning and ending long-term debt and equity for the trailing 12 months, return on invested capital was 26.3%, down from 31.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2024. Now I will comment on our outlook for fiscal 2025. Today, we are updating our fiscal 2025 guidance to include softer-than-expected results in the third quarter, continued pressure in the fourth quarter from the lack of storm activity, ongoing consumer uncertainty and housing pressure as well as the inclusion of the GMS acquisition into our consolidated results.

For fiscal 2025, we expect total sales growth of approximately positive 3% with GMS expected to contribute approximately $2 billion in incremental sales and comp sales growth percent to be slightly positive compared to fiscal 2024. Our gross margin is expected to be approximately 33.2%. Further, we expect operating margin of approximately 12.6% and adjusted operating margin of approximately 13%. Our effective tax rate is targeted at approximately 24.5%. We expect net interest expense of approximately $2.3 billion. We expect our diluted earnings per share to decline approximately 6% compared to fiscal 2024 when comparing the 52 weeks in fiscal 2025 to the 53 weeks in fiscal 2024. And we expect our adjusted diluted earnings per share to decline approximately 5% compared to fiscal 2024 when comparing the 52 weeks in fiscal 2025 to the 53 weeks in fiscal 2024.

We plan to continue investing in our business with capital expenditures of approximately 2.5% of sales for fiscal 2025. We believe that we will grow market share in any environment by strengthening our competitive position with our customers and delivering the best customer experience in home improvement.

Thank you for your participation in today's call. And Christine, we are now ready for questions.