Hims & Hers Health, Inc. (HIMS) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 3, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Bill Newby
Andrew Dudum - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Yemi Okupe - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Justin Patterson - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Maria Ripps - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
Craig Hettenbach - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Brian Tanquilut - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Eric Percher - Nephron Research LLC
Ryan MacDonald - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Jungwon Kim - TD Cowen, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. My name is Eric, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Hims & Hers Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to Bill Newby, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Bill Newby

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Hims & Hers Health Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. Today, after the market closed, we released this quarter's shareholder letter, a copy of which you can find on our website at investors.hims.com.

On the call with me today is Andrew Dudum, our Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer; and Yemi Okupe, our Chief Financial Officer. Before I hand it over to Andrew, I need to remind you of legal safe harbor and cautionary declarations. Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute forward-looking statements that are based on, among other things, our current market, competitors and regulatory expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.

We take no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements after this call, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements are described in our earnings release and SEC filings. Please see our recent earnings release and most recently filed 10-K and 10-Q reports for a discussion of these risk factors as they relate to forward-looking statements.

In today's presentation, we also have certain non-GAAP financial measures. We refer you to the reconciliation tables to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures contained in today's press release and shareholder letter. You can find this information as well as a link to today's webcast at investors.hims.com. After the call, this webcast will be archived on the website for 12 months.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Andrew.

Andrew Dudum
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thanks, Bill. The third quarter was another strong step forward for Hims & Hers. Our strategy is working. We're expanding reach, deepening engagement and transforming how people experience health care. And the most exciting part is that this growing scale is making the entire experience better for our subscribers. Hims & Hers is one of the few health care platforms where each customer engagement improves the overall experience. Scale doesn't just make us bigger, it makes us better. The learnings from each encounter position us to drive better experiences, stronger customer relationships and wider accessibility. Personalized care sits at the center of this evolution. Our growing scale means more people have access to treatment plans that can adapt to their unique needs, biology and goals by incorporating a variety of form factors, dosing regimens and multi-condition solutions.

Our consistent focus on democratizing access to these types of experiences continues to deliver meaningful results for our business. At the end of the quarter, subscribers using personalized solutions grew 50% year-over-year, helping drive nearly 50% in year-over-year revenue growth. Over the past few years, how we serve our customers has evolved in extraordinary ways. We started by helping people access simple, effective treatments for a narrow set of conditions. Then we expanded into personalized multi-condition care, giving customers a single place to manage a wide variety of health challenges with solutions tailored to them.

Now looking ahead, we plan to go beyond helping people treat their existing conditions and start helping them proactively manage their health before conditions even materialize. As we continue building a platform that unlocks broader access to care that's personal, proactive and connected, we expect that broader collaboration will become key. Whether that's through partnerships, investments or joint innovation, we see enormous potential to work alongside others across the health care ecosystem to make this future a reality. As we noted in our earnings release, we are in active discussions with Novo Nordisk to make Wegovy injections and once FDA approved Novo's oral Wegovy available through our platform to continue advancing consumer options.

Earlier in the quarter, we announced a partnership with Marius Pharmaceuticals, which will allow our customers to access one of the few FDA-approved oral testosterone treatments in 2026. We expect these solutions, combined with consistent provider support and the ability to seamlessly track hormone levels via the Hims app can help redefine how millions of men access effective hormonal care. And most recently, we made a strategic investment in GRAIL, the company behind what we believe is the most advanced multi-cancer early detection test on the market. We are proud to invest in a company that shares our vision for the future. These relationships underscore the potential of what we've been building. They reflect our ongoing commitment to making our platform a powerful curator of the best-in-class health and wellness solutions.

Over time, we plan to pursue a mix of strategic investments, partnerships and collaborations in order to build a single destination where customers can access a range of innovative offerings alongside the most personal, convenient care available. These recent developments are an exciting glimpse into a future where access to proactive preventative care is not a privilege but a standard. I've never been more excited about where this company is heading. When we initially shared our 2030 goals earlier this year of more than $6.5 billion in revenue and $1.3 billion in adjusted EBITDA, it was with this clear vision in mind.

Today, we're delivering against that vision in a real way. The opportunities to accelerate our trajectory are materializing quicker than anticipated, and we are leaning in. Let's start with weight loss, which remains one of the most important global health challenges impacting nearly 1 billion adults around the world. Since launching this specialty nearly 2 years ago, we've shown that combining reliable access to effective medications with a best-in-class experience has the potential to change lives. We believe that customers are best supported when they have access to data-driven provider recommendations, ongoing clinical guidance and easy-to-use digital tools that track progress. The foundation behind our continued growth will be the ongoing verticalization of our compounding infrastructure.

We believe investments in these facilities are establishing a new gold standard for compounding infrastructure broadly, positioning us to accelerate growth while maintaining the high standards of safety, quality and affordability our customers are accustomed to. Importantly, this means all active pharmaceutical ingredients in compounded treatments are sourced from FDA-registered facilities. And in cases such as semaglutide, for which the FDA recently established a green list of GLP-1 API suppliers, we source solely from these suppliers. As our scale has grown, we've also shown a consistent track record of translating that growth into greater efficiency. This track record and ongoing efforts to verticalize our sterile compounding operations support our ongoing pursuit to make GLP-1 offerings increasingly accessible.

Recently, we strategically reduced prices across compounded GLP-1 treatment plans by as much as 20%, extending accessible care to an even broader population.

In the quarters ahead, we'll also continue expanding the breadth of options accessible through our platform. Our technology and vertically integrated infrastructure are unlocking new levels of personalization, most recently with the addition of microdosing options for compounded semaglutide treatments. It's allowing us to deliver what we believe is the most high-touch patient-centric experience in the market. And as we help more customers find the right treatment and support providers in evolving patient care, we're continuing to strengthen that leadership position.

Put simply, we're making it easier for more customers to start, stay on and succeed in their own weight loss journey, and we're confident that we'll continue to drive results for a growing set of customers by doing so. We're also extending the benefits of our consumer-centric approach to new specialties. We believe recent launches supporting low testosterone and menopause unlock significant long-term growth opportunities and increase our ability to deepen relationships with existing subscribers while expanding access to care for millions more. The current state of hormone health care in the U.S. reflects the exact challenge Hims & Hers was designed for, conditions that impact millions, available treatment options that can make a real difference and a system that still makes access far too hard. We're changing that. Millions of men experience symptoms of low testosterone but face stigma, confusion or limited access to effective care.

Our recent launch aims to address these issues with access to personalized provider-guided treatment plans supported by at-home lab testing. While still early, the response to this launch has already indicated an immediate product market fit, and we're actively optimizing both the experience and the operational engine behind this offering to meet the strong demand. Through our perimenopause and menopause offering, we're addressing one of the biggest gaps in women's health. Nearly 1.3 million women in the U.S. enter menopause each year, yet only 30% of OB/GYN residency programs offer formal training on how to treat it. Our new Hers offering helps close this gap by providing access to personalized care and support designed specifically for women during this stage of life. We expect this offering to become a meaningful growth driver as the Hers brand reaches more women and scales towards $1 billion in annual revenue in 2026.

Together, these launches expand our reach across life stages and conditions, and more importantly, they lay the groundwork for the next era where Hims & Hers can change the status quo for millions of customers, proactive health and diagnostics. We plan to launch comprehensive whole body lab testing before year-end, which will represent a significant step forward in this evolution. By scaling capabilities like blood testing, we're thrilled to help more customers affordably access the insights they need to monitor, maintain and improve their overall health. We envision these capabilities empowering consumers to proactively address health concerns such as vitamin deficiencies, unoptimized hormonal levels and genetic risk factors while also identifying early indicators of more serious conditions like cancer and cardiovascular disease.

Historically, people have come to us to manage existing conditions. Soon, we'll help them take a more proactive role in managing their health and in doing so, can potentially impact millions of lives. Our goal is to one day help identify and manage risks associated with heart disease, metabolic disorders, neurodegenerative diseases and cancer, long before symptoms appear. We believe our platform is uniquely positioned to make this possible. We have the lab testing capabilities to give customers and providers deeper health insights. We have the provider network and compounding infrastructure in place to help take action against those insights, and we have a strengthening data feedback loop that can help measure, adapt and refine care at scale. We believe that combination positions Hims & Hers to do what few others in health care can, turn data into tailored action for millions of people.

These capabilities alongside our California-based peptide manufacturing facility, which is actively onshoring R&D for core peptide applications form the foundation of the longevity specialty we plan to launch in 2026. We plan to scale the specialty to feature a broad range of therapies in addition to our new testing options. Over time, we expect these will include peptides, coenzymes, GLP and GIP treatments designed to improve performance, recovery and cardiometabolic longevity markers. Each of these initiatives are part of a broader effort to make advanced diagnostics and the care that follows more accessible. Through investment and when appropriate partnerships, we expect this type of care, which has historically been accessible only to a small affluent subset of the population available to each of our customers.

Finally, our success in the U.S. and U.K. gives us real conviction that our model can scale globally. We believe that this team, vision and balance sheet we have in place are uniquely positioned to scale a leading consumer health platform globally. In Europe, our acquisition of Zava Global gives us the infrastructure to serve customers across the U.K., Germany, France, Ireland and Spain. We're now reaching a total addressable market of more than 200 million adults across these regions, and the early response continues to validate how naturally our model translates.

Next, we're preparing to launch in Canada in the near future, notably expanding our North America presence. With 2/3 of Canadian adults overweight or living with obesity, we're incredibly excited about this opportunity to make high-touch care more accessible. We are in active discussions with leading generic manufacturers to ensure that once semaglutide becomes available in generic form in 2026, we are ready to deliver access through our platform. Looking ahead, we see international markets as a powerful long-term growth opportunity, representing more than $1 billion in potential annual revenue. We're deploying meaningful capital to bring the Hims & Hers experience to more customers across the U.K. and broader European markets, where we see a significant opportunity to scale our model and deepen our presence.

We believe Hims & Hers will soon become the largest global consumer health platform, unlocking access to direct-to-consumer personalized care for more customers than any company in the world. This approach extends across our entire business. The runway for growth and the opportunities to drive accelerating adoption across a wide range of conditions and health concerns are clear. We'll keep investing in what matters most, expanding our reach, deepening engagement and broadening our capabilities, allowing customers to manage and improve their health on one single platform. Since founding this company, I've never been more excited than I am right now. The future of health care is ours to build, and we are building it piece by piece.

With that, I'll pass it over to Yemi to talk through our financial performance and updated outlook for 2025.

Yemi Okupe
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Andrew. I'll start by providing an overview of our third quarter financial results before going deeper into our final outlook for 2025. In the third quarter, our commitment to doing more for our customers drove another period of exceptional growth and expansion. By consistently introducing new innovative offerings and broadening the range of specialties we support, we're systematically increasing the number of individuals we are able to reach and help. This growing breadth of care anchored in a precision medicine-based approach is enabling us to reach customers at multiple points throughout their health care journey and evolve with them as their needs change. During the third quarter, revenue grew 49% year-over-year to nearly $600 million, while adjusted EBITDA margins were above 13%.

In the third quarter, our subscriber base increased sequentially by more than 30,000, reflecting a year-over-year growth rate of 20%. We see the formation of a robust foundation of multiyear growth levers across 3 key areas of our portfolio: offerings under our Hims brand in the U.S., offerings under our Hers brand in the U.S. and an expanding portfolio of international markets. Within our Hims brand, we are making a deliberate effort to transition away from generic on-demand sexual health solutions towards more personalized daily treatment offerings that allow providers to address a wider spectrum of needs. Excluding the impact of the current sexual health transition, subscribers in the third quarter grew north of 40% year-over-year.

Our expectation is that the effects of this transition will meaningfully dissipate in the second half of next year. We believe that these dynamics in conjunction with the launch of new offerings such as testosterone will result in accelerating growth in the second half of 2026 within our Hims portfolio. Switching to Hers. We've seen the collective offerings under our Hers brand grow near or above triple digits for the last several years and are now on pace to deliver revenue of over $1 billion in 2026. We expect the addition of new specialties such as menopause, diagnostics and longevity to continue driving strong growth across the Hers portfolio.

Before going deeper into the investments we are making to drive growth across our strategic areas, I'll provide an overview of profitability dynamics. During the third quarter, adjusted EBITDA grew more than 50% year-over-year to $78 million, offering another strong proof point of our team's ability to execute with discipline and deliver results consistent within our capital allocation framework. Adjusted EBITDA margins increased relative to the prior year as significant leverage on our marketing spend more than offset higher costs, and we continue to benefit from investments that are enabling us to scale new specialties, expand our global footprint and further elevate the talent across the organization.

In particular, we're making meaningful investments in talent across our technology organization as we build out the team and infrastructure that will power our next phase of expansion. Marketing as a percentage of revenue was 39%, representing more than 6 points of leverage year-over-year. We continue to see acquisition gains through lower cost and nonpaid channels, benefits from higher retention as more subscribers benefit from personalized offerings and a more stable backdrop within our weight loss offering. Each of these factors has resulted in leverage from revenue growth outpacing marketing investment.

Gross margins declined over 2 points quarter-over-quarter to 74% as tailwinds from continued growth in non-weight specialties were offset by lower intra-quarter revenue recognized per shipment from certain weight loss offerings due to shorter shipping cadences. G&A costs were also pressured as a result of the Zava integration as well as additional expenses related to the hiring of new leadership talent. G&A as a percentage of revenue increased 2 points year-over-year. A similar dynamic was seen in operations and support costs. Technology and development costs as a percentage of revenue increased nearly 2 points year-over-year to 7%, reflecting ongoing investment in engineering and product talent across the organization.

We expect to continue investing in this area over the coming quarters as these initiatives enhance the customer experience and drive long-term financial returns. We believe these investments will pay back over the mid- to long term in the form of reduced costs from greater efficiency, but more importantly, through unlocking new growth vectors for the company in the future.

Our priorities center around long-term free cash flow generation and each of the investments we are making today set the foundation for greater free cash flow generation in the future. In the third quarter, cash flow from operations was $149 million, which translated into free cash flow of $79 million. At quarter end, we had over $1.1 billion of cash, short-term and long-term investments, of which $630 million was held in cash and short-term investments. The strength of our cash flow and balance sheet places us in a unique position to strategically deploy capital to expand both organically as well as through strategic M&A opportunities. We believe this to be a meaningful differentiator and opportunity to cement our leadership position as we do not believe that there is a peer in our space that has the resources and expertise to do the same.

Similar to prior quarters, we expect to invest across the following areas. First is continued verticalization and expansion of personalized capabilities within our facilities. In the coming quarters, we expect our operational footprint and capabilities to continue to expand. We entered the year with a facility footprint of just under 400,000 square feet and expect to leave the year with a footprint north of 1 million. This will enable us to unlock additional form factors like gummies across a broader set of specialties, increase capacity for fulfillment of sterile offerings as well as leverage insights from diagnostic capabilities to have an even more comprehensive set of multi-condition offerings.

While we expect to see retention and acquisition benefits across each of our specialties, this will be a particularly important component with respect to: one, broadening the appeal of our sexual health offering while we transition from on-demand offerings towards daily solutions; and two, leveraging verticalization to make higher complexity offerings, inclusive of our weight loss and testosterone solutions more affordable with minimal long-term margin sacrifices. Second, we plan to continue expanding the breadth of solutions and enhancing the customer experience across our new specialties. In the third quarter, we were pleased to launch our low testosterone offering and have already seen strong interest from our current subscriber base.

In the fourth quarter, we have launched solutions for perimenopause and menopause support and plan to launch comprehensive lab testing diagnostics, both of which we believe will be meaningful accelerants to the business. We expect continued investments in our facilities will enable us to broaden solutions within these specialties as well as reduce cost of verticalization. Third, we continue to see strategic investments, partnerships and collaborations as powerful tools to extend our impact and advance our mission. Our recent investment in GRAIL exemplifies this approach. Through these initiatives, we see real opportunity to leverage our balance sheet to strengthen relationships across the broader health care ecosystem.

Over time, these efforts can make new and innovative developments in health care more accessible to a broader portion of the population. Fourth, we expect to make meaningful investments in the capabilities of our technology platform. We believe the breadth of data on our platform and its utility value in helping our subscribers optimize their health will meaningfully increase with the launch of deeper diagnostic testing from our offerings. This can come in the form of data-driven treatment recommendations, chatbots to enable faster nonclinical customer solutions or AI-assisted tools such as nutritional coaches. We are already seeing early wins and look forward to bringing deeper updates on this front in the future. Lastly, our mission to help the world feel great through the power of better health does not have borders.

Success in the U.K. was a catalyst in our expansion into Germany, France, Ireland and Spain through the Zava acquisition, and soon, we will add Canada to that list. The strength of our balance sheet and the considerable cash flow profile we built in the U.S. position us to deploy capital into these more nascent markets in a disciplined way. Additionally, we expect to meaningfully scale our operations in the U.K. with more investment in expanded capabilities and reinforcement of our brand, given signals around the significant opportunity that we see. Further refinement of our playbook unlocks our potential to expand in Brazil, Australia and other Latin American and Asian markets in the future.

Hims & Hers is undergoing another significant evolution on multiple fronts, technology, new capabilities, new specialties as well as expanding geographical coverage. One of the most exciting shifts will come from what our upcoming launch of comprehensive whole body diagnostic testing will bring. Currently, consumers come to our platform seeking a solution for a known condition that they want help with. With deeper diagnostics, we believe we'll be able to orient to a model that allows subscribers to proactively manage their health in pursuit of healthier and longer lives. This will enable us to attract a broader set of consumers as well as deepen engagement with our current subscribers.

Over the coming quarters, we expect to elevate investment to unlock capabilities to improve the experience we bring to current and future subscribers. Investment will be focused on accelerating adoption in new specialties, enhancing our technical talent to build a next-generation technology platform and cementing our leadership position by delivering greater value to our subscribers. Our capital allocation framework will remain in place, and we believe similar to past investment periods, we will realize a meaningful return on these investments in the future.

With that, I'll double-click into our outlook for the remainder of the year. In the fourth quarter, we expect revenue to be between $605 million to $625 million, representing a year-over-year growth rate of between 26% and 30%. We are anticipating adjusted EBITDA in the range of $55 million to $65 million, reflecting a 10% margin at the midpoint. For the full year, we expect revenue to be between $2.335 billion and $2.355 billion, reflecting a year-over-year increase that ranges from 58% to 59%. We are anticipating adjusted EBITDA in the range of $307 million to $317 million, reflecting a 13% margin at the midpoint.

Behind our outlook are the following assumptions. First, we expect the migration of fulfillment for sterile weight loss products to 503A facilities to drive between $20 million to $25 million of headwinds in the fourth quarter from shorter shipment cadences that result in less revenue recognized per shipment. This dynamic will normalize in the second half of 2026 as the cohorts of customers refilling their orders accumulate. We are making meaningful investments to expand our internal 503A sterile fulfillment capacity. Progress on this front gave us conviction to make GLP-1s more accessible through lowering the price points for our 2-month, 4-month and 6-month offerings in the fourth quarter.

This is expected to come with near-term margin headwinds that will normalize in the second half of next year as we continue to progress with the verticalization of our sterile fulfillment capabilities. Second, we continue to expect at least $50 million of incremental revenue from Zava in the second half of the year. Since closing the acquisition in July, momentum has been strong, and we're actively deploying resources in our proven consumer-centric playbook to capture the significant market opportunities we see across Europe.

Lastly, we expect the continued moderation in our on-demand sexual health business to persist in the near term, though these headwinds should begin to ease in 2026 as daily sexual health subscribers and multi-condition treatment plans become a larger share of the mix. The ongoing shift for personalized offerings remains a key driver of long-term revenue retention, supporting our target of 85% or higher, positioning the business for more durable recurring growth over time. As Andrew mentioned, we're excited to be in a position where we can confidently invest in the long-term trajectory of our business. We expect these investments to start in the fourth quarter and continue through 2026 as we scale new categories, build a larger presence in new markets and begin driving greater value to subscribers through innovative partnerships.

While this may result in a temporary pause in year-over-year margin expansion, we believe these investments will meaningfully extend the reach of our platform around the world. With the immense opportunity in front of us, our conviction remains high in our ability to meet or exceed the 2030 targets we established earlier this year, at least $6.5 billion in revenue and $1.3 billion in adjusted EBITDA. Our success would not be possible without the significant efforts of Hims & Hers employees around the world. I'd like to thank them, our subscribers and our shareholders, for supporting us in our mission to help the world feel great through the power of better health.

With that, I'll turn it back to Bill to kick off Q&A with 2 questions from our retail investor community.