Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. (NYSE:HLT) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 22, 2025 9:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Charlie Ruehr
Christopher Nassetta - President, CEO & Director
Kevin Jacobs - Executive VP & Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Shaun Kelley - BofA Securities, Research Division
Stephen Grambling - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Daniel Politzer - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
David Katz - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Steven Pizzella - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Elizabeth Dove - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Michael Bellisario - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Bennett Rose - Citigroup Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to the Hilton Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Charlie Ruehr, Vice President, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations. You may begin.

Charlie Ruehr

Thank you, Chuck. Welcome to Hilton's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. Before we begin, we would like to remind you that our discussions this morning will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements, and forward-looking statements made today speak only to our expectations as of today. We undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, please see the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed Form 10-K.

In addition, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures on this call. You can find reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures discussed in today's call in our earnings press release and on our website at ir.hilton.com. This morning, Chris Nassetta, our President and Chief Executive Officer, will provide an overview of the current operating environment and the company's outlook. Kevin Jacobs, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will then review our third quarter results and discuss our expectations for the year. Following their remarks, we will be happy to take your questions.

With that, I'm pleased to turn the call over to Chris.

Christopher Nassetta
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Charlie, and good morning, everyone. We certainly appreciate you joining us for our call today. Our third quarter results continue to demonstrate the resilience of our business as strong net unit growth, disciplined cost control and our capital-light business model delivered solid bottom line performance. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS both meaningfully exceeded the high end of our expectations despite softer-than-expected industry RevPAR performance. Our strong portfolio of brands, powerful commercial engines, and disciplined execution continue to drive meaningful free cash flow conversion, which we expect to be greater than 50% of adjusted EBITDA for the full year. We remain on track to return $3.3 billion to our shareholders in the form of buybacks and dividends for the full year.

Turning to results for the quarter. System-wide RevPAR was down approximately 1% year-over-year as unfavorable holidays and events, softer international inbound to the U.S., declines in U.S. government-related travel and portfolio renovations weighed on results. In the quarter, leisure transient RevPAR was roughly flat, driven by strong demand in Europe and the Middle East, offset by unfavorable holiday shifts in the U.S. Business transient RevPAR decreased approximately 1%, driven by continued economic uncertainty.

Group RevPAR decreased approximately 4%, driven by tougher comparables as we lap major international events, renovation impacts and holiday shifts. We did see group demand strengthen, which is reflected in our stronger fourth quarter group position and our 2026 position, which is up in the mid-single digits. As we look to the fourth quarter, we expect RevPAR to be up approximately 1%, driven by holiday shifts, easier year-over-year comps and relative group strength. We now expect RevPAR for the full year to be flat to up 1%.

As I lift up and think about the opportunity ahead, I remain optimistic about the next few years. We continue to believe that in the U.S., lower interest rates, a more favorable regulatory environment, certainty on tax policy and a significant investment cycle will result in accelerated economic growth and meaningful increases in travel demand. This, when paired with limited industry supply growth, should drive stronger RevPAR growth over the next several years.

Turning to development. During the third quarter, we opened 199 hotels totaling over 24,000 rooms, and achieved net unit growth of 6.5%. Openings increased more than 35% year-over-year on an organic basis. Our luxury and lifestyle brands continue to expand around the world, comprising approximately 20% of total openings in the third quarter. In Asia Pacific, we announced our plans to exceed 250 luxury and lifestyle hotels in the coming years, representing portfolio growth of over 50%. In Europe, we opened the Conrad Hamburg to expand our award-winning luxury brand into one of Europe's most iconic destinations.

Conversions remain integral to our growth story. We expect nearly 40% of openings in 2025 to be conversions across 12 of our brands sourced from a mix of independent hotels and competitor brands. We recently celebrated Hilton's 9,000th hotel following the conversion of the Signia by Hilton La Cantera Resort & Spa, a landmark property set at top 550 acres overlooking the Rolling Hills of Texas Hill Country. We also added the 1,000-room Sunseeker Resort as part of our Curio collection. After eclipsing 8,000 hotels just a year ago, we opened nearly 3 hotels per day to reach this latest milestone, further underscoring our incredible growth momentum.

In the years to come, we continue to believe the conversion opportunity is immense globally to help capture this opportunity and leverage our skill set in identifying white space and developing new brands, earlier this month, we launched our newest brand, Outset Collection by Hilton, the company's 25th brand and 8th in our growing lifestyle portfolio. Outset Collection by Hilton is defined by soulful story-led properties featuring a diverse range of hotels across urban destinations, small towns, adventure outposts and off-beat hubs. Grounded in deep research, we determined that the upper mid-scale to upscale collection space represents an enormous opportunity for unbranded or independent hotels that currently comprise more than 50% of the global hotel supply.

To date, we have more than 60 hotels in development with a long-term growth potential of more than 500 hotels across North America alone, and we'll open our first several in the fourth quarter. Hilton has consistently delivered an industry-leading share of conversions in the United States, and we expect that to strengthen with the addition of Outset Collection. More broadly, we continue to deploy our brands into new markets around the world, driven by industry-leading premiums they deliver for owners. In the quarter, we marked brand debuts in 12 new countries and territories, including DoubleTree in Pakistan, Hampton in the U.S. Virgin Islands and Motto in Hong Kong, which also represented the brand's debut in Asia Pacific.

Globally, Hilton operates properties in 141 countries and territories with an average of only 4 of our 25 brands per country, demonstrating the huge runway of growth ahead. In addition to strong openings, we signed 33,000 rooms in the quarter, up over 25% year-over-year on an organic basis. We increased our development pipeline to more than 515,000 rooms, growing both year-over-year and sequentially versus the second quarter with expansion in key strategic markets and across chain scales.

In Japan, we announced several agreements to further bolster our luxury and lifestyle portfolio, including Waldorf Astoria Residences in Tokyo, marking the region's first residences under the iconic Waldorf Astoria brand. We approved LXR, Curio, and Tapestry properties at the foot of Mount Annupuri Japan, offering guests easy access to Niseko's exceptional ski slopes when the hotels open later this year.

In Vietnam, we approved nearly 1,800 rooms across 5 hotels to debut our Conrad, LXR, and DoubleTree brands and to expand the Hilton brand in one of Asia's most dynamic markets. We also signed our first LXR hotel in Phuket, Thailand, our first Canopy in Manila, Philippines, and announced 3 Curio hotels in key Italian destinations, including Geneva, Milan, and Sorrento. New development construction starts in the U.S. were strong during the quarter. And for the full year, we expect global new development starts to finish up nearly 20% and up over 25% in the U.S. year-over-year.

Even with this year-over-year growth, new development construction starts remain below 2019 levels, implying strong continued runway for growth. Our record-setting pipeline, combined with conversion momentum and acceleration in construction starts will continue to fuel our growth in the coming years. We expect to achieve net unit growth of between 6.5% and 7% in 2025 and 6% to 7% annually over the next several years. Our development success is incumbent on us being the premier partner for our owner community. Thus, we're always innovating to continue delivering industry-leading RevPAR premiums and profitability for owners while exceeding guest expectations.

During the quarter, we communicated a first-of-its-kind program that offers owners system fee reductions, many of which are tied to hotel-specific product and service quality scores. The fee reductions will share the efficiencies we have gained through scale and technology with our owners while reinforcing the need to continue maximizing the customer experience. We think we are well-positioned to continue finding new efficiencies and strengthening our value proposition for guest owners, team members, and shareholders. Our proprietary tech platform, which was envisioned a decade ago, was built for agility with 90% of our enterprise solutions in the cloud today, up from 20% in 2020 when we started deployment. This modern platform has established Hilton as a pioneer and leader in hospitality technology and is allowing us to rapidly introduce new innovations that elevate guest experiences and drive greater value for our entire network. Because of where we are in our technology platform road map, we feel uniquely positioned in the industry to embrace AI and drive greater differentiation for our Hilton network.

During the quarter, we continued to drive our award-winning workplace culture, including being named #1 Best Workplace in Australia, New Zealand, and Sri Lanka, marking a total of 18 #1 wins in the past year, the most since we began participating in the Great Place to Work survey. We're more confident than ever that our team is poised to deliver for our shareholders in the years ahead. Overall, we're very optimistic about our business and what is on the horizon globally. Our brand-led network-driven and platform-enabled strategy will continue to help us achieve our dramatic growth trajectory and meet the evolving needs of our travelers around the world while delivering great returns to owners and shareholders.

Now I'm going to turn the call over to Kevin for a few more details on the quarter and expectations for the full year.

Kevin Jacobs
Executive VP & Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. During the quarter, system-wide RevPAR decreased 1.1% versus the prior year on a comparable and currency-neutral basis, driven by modest declines in both occupancy and rate. Adjusted EBITDA was $976 million in the third quarter, up 8% year-over-year and exceeding the high end of our guidance range. Outperformance was predominantly driven by better-than-expected growth in non-RevPAR-driven fees, disciplined cost control, ownership and some timing items outweighing RevPAR softness. Management franchise fees grew 5.3% year-over-year. For the quarter, diluted earnings per share adjusted for special items was $2.11.

Turning to our regional performance. Third quarter comparable U.S. RevPAR decreased 2.3%, largely driven by pressure across business transient and group as holiday shifts, declines in government spend, portfolio renovations and softer international inbound demand weighed on performance. For full year 2025, we expect U.S. RevPAR to be roughly flat versus 2024. In the Americas outside the U.S., third quarter RevPAR increased 4.3% year-over-year, driven by strong demand in both leisure and group segments. For full year 2025, we expect RevPAR growth to be in the mid-single digits.

In Europe, RevPAR grew 1% year-over-year, driven by a rebound in the U.K. and Ireland and offset by a tough year-over-year comparison from major events last year. For full year 2025, we expect low single-digit RevPAR growth. In the Middle East and Africa region, RevPAR increased 9.9% year-over-year, driven by robust intra-regional travel growth for both business and leisure segments. For full year 2025, we expect RevPAR growth in the high single-digit range. In the Asia Pacific region, third quarter RevPAR was up 3.8% in APAC, excluding China, led by strong group trends in Japan, Korea, and South Asia. RevPAR in China declined 3.1% in the quarter, largely driven by the impact of the government travel policy on business transient and group travel, particularly in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities. For full year 2025, we expect RevPAR growth in the Asia Pacific region to be roughly flat, assuming modest RevPAR growth -- assuming modest RevPAR declines in China.

Turning to development. As Chris mentioned, for the quarter, we grew net units 6.5% and have more than 515,000 rooms in our pipeline, of which nearly half are under construction. We expect to deliver 6.5% to 7% net unit growth for the full year.

Moving to guidance. For the fourth quarter, we expect system-wide RevPAR growth to be approximately 1%. We expect adjusted EBITDA of between $906 million and $936 million and diluted EPS adjusted for special items to be between $1.94 and $2.03. For the full year, we expect RevPAR growth of 0% to 1%, adjusted EBITDA between $3.685 billion and $3.715 billion and diluted EPS adjusted for special items of between $7.97 and $8.06. Please note that our guidance ranges do not incorporate future share repurchases.

Moving on to capital return. We paid a cash dividend of $0.15 per share during the third quarter, bringing dividends to a total of $108 million for the year-to-date. Our Board also authorized a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share in the fourth quarter. For the full year, we expect to return approximately $3.3 billion to shareholders in the form of buybacks and dividends.

Further details on our third quarter results can be found in the earnings release we issued earlier this morning. This completes our prepared remarks. We would now like to open the line for any questions you may have. We would like to speak with as many of you as possible so we ask that you limit yourself to one question.

Chuck, can we have our first question, please?