Honeywell International Inc. (HON) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Sean Meakim - Vice President of Investor Relations
Vimal Kapur - Chairman & CEO
Mike Stepniak - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Julian Mitchell - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Nigel Coe - Wolfe Research, LLC
Scott Davis - Melius Research LLC
C. Stephen Tusa - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Deane Dray - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Amit Mehrotra - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Nicole DeBlase - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Christopher Snyder - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Andrew Obin - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Honeywell Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's call is being recorded. I would now like to hand the call over to Sean Meakim, Vice President of Investor Relations.

Sean Meakim
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to Honeywell's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings and 2026 Outlook Conference Call. On the call with me today are Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Vimal Kapur; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mike Stepniak, as well as Mark Macaluso, who will be leading Investor Relations for Honeywell going forward. This webcast and the presentation materials, including non-GAAP reconciliations, are available on our Investor Relations website.

From time to time, we post new information that may be of interest or material to our investors on this website. Our discussion today includes forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including the ones described in our recent SEC filings.

This morning, we will review our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2025 and discuss our guidance for the first quarter and full year 2026. As a reminder, we began reporting Advanced Materials as discontinued operations beginning in the fourth quarter of 2025, following the successful spin of Solstice Advanced Materials on October 30, 2025. The fourth quarter results we present today exclude Solstice. As always, we will leave time for your questions at the end. With that, it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Vimal, who will begin on Slide 3.

Vimal Kapur
Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Sean, and good morning, everyone. Honeywell delivered a strong fourth quarter to close 2025, exceeding our expectations for both adjusted sales and adjusted EPS with orders up 23%, driving our backlog to over $37 billion. This performance reinforces the strength of our end market positions and execution. We exited the year with a sales growth of 6%, excluding the impact of 2024 Bombardier agreement, which demonstrates the outcome of our portfolio actions and our emerging focus on innovation stemming from continued investment in R&D.

This gives us conviction in another year of meaningful top and bottom-line growth of 2026. Looking ahead, we expect to once again drive strong organic growth fueled by conversion of our record backlog, disciplined price execution and momentum in new product introductions. The strong organic growth, coupled with productivity and an aggressive reduction in stranded costs related to the spins will enable us to deliver 6% to 9% earnings growth in 2026, along with accelerating cash generation.

It was about a year ago that we announced our intention to spin off Aerospace, which will result in creation of 3 leading pure-play independent public companies. We have made tremendous progress throughout the year with the Advanced Materials spin complete, and we now expect to complete the Aerospace spin in the third quarter of 2026. Both Aerospace and Automation will host Investor Day in June, and I hope many of you can join us then.

Our teams are working around the clock to ensure this gets done as quickly and judiciously as possible. And I want to thank all our employees for their commitment and dedication to this process. We also remain very excited about the progress at Quantinuum on key technological and commercial milestones that position the business to lead the way in quantum computing. I will talk more about Quantinuum and its progress in a few minutes.

2026 will be an exciting year as we move forward the final stages of our portfolio simplification. This positions each business with the right strategic focus, organizational agility and tailored capital allocation strategies needed to grow faster and drive incremental value for all stakeholders. Let's now turn to Slide 3 to discuss the latest update on our portfolio transformation. As I mentioned, we are progressing faster than originally anticipated on our separation milestones.

On October 30, Solstice began trading as an independent public company, and we now expect the Aerospace to occur in quarter 3. To that end, we announced the Aerospace's leadership team last week, comprised of tenured aerospace veterans and made key Board appointments to bring extensive operating experience to our teams. Jim Currier, who will serve as President and CEO of Honeywell Aerospace at the time of separation, will be joined by Josh Jepsen, who will serve as Chief Financial Officer.

Additionally, we announced that Craig Arnold, the former Chairman and CEO of Eaton Corporation, will serve as Non-Executive Chair of Honeywell Aerospace Board of Directors. Craig brings more than 2 decades of experience in leadership roles at industrial and tech businesses where he delivered transformational results through operational excellence and disciplined capital allocation.

Together, Craig, Jim and Josh bring the right mix of industry, company and capital market experience to maximize the value for our customers, partners, employees and our shareowners. We're also excited to welcome Indra Nooyi, former Chair and CEO of PepsiCo, to Honeywell's Board of Directors, further strengthening our team with her proven track record of leading diverse global businesses and accelerating long-term growth.

Beginning in 2026, we reorganized Honeywell segment into a more simplified structure focused on cohesive, synergetic business model. Moving forward, we'll be reporting 4 segments: Aerospace Technologies, Building Automation, Process Automation and Technology, and Industrial Automation. The 3 Automation reporting segments will be organized into 6 strategic business units, enabling us to better solve customer challenges and deliver enhanced outcomes with the Honeywell Forge platform.

Finally, we concluded the strategic review of Productivity Solutions and Services and Warehouse and Workflow Solutions and have announced that we intend to pursue a sale of both businesses in first half of 2026. All of these actions position both Aerospace and Automation for a strong beginning as new industry-leading public companies in 2026. Let's turn to Slide 4 to discuss the recent advancements of Quantinuum.

Following the recent fundraising in which Quantinuum raised approximately $840 million at a $10 billion pre-money valuation, the pace of both technological and commercial progress at Quantinuum is rapidly increasing. Close collaborative with shareowners as Quanta -- such as Quanta, NVIDIA, JPMorgan, Amgen and Mitsui have led to new commercial partnerships that are supporting the development of critical applications for improving drug discovery, cybersecurity and encryption for large financial institutions.

In November, Quantinuum announced the launch of Helios, the world's most accurate commercial quantum computer, which nearly doubles the qubit count of its predecessor H2, and we believe sets a new standard for quantum computing performance with the highest fidelity for quantum computing qubits ever released in the market. Helios's groundbreaking design and advanced software stack brings quantum programming closer to the ease and flexibility of classical computing, which we believe positions the company to accelerate Quantum's commercial adoption.

Quantinuum also announced a partnership to integrate Helios with NVIDIA's AI supercomputing technology to create powerful new architecture that can solve the world's most pressing challenges. This collaboration between Quantinuum and NVIDIA is creating a future where AI becomes more expansive through quantum computing and quantum computing becomes more powerful through AI. As Quantinuum achieved these important technological and commercial milestones, I am confident of the company's future and the best is yet to come.

And before Mike talks about 4Q results, let's move to Slide 5 to discuss our recent growth acceleration. This chart demonstrates the recent acceleration in organic growth stemming from a combination of strong end market demand, our portfolio simplification and innovation. This drove a 300 to 400 basis point improvement in LTM average organic growth since the beginning of 2024.

As I noted earlier, we see favorable end market dynamics across aerospace and defense, process and building automation. We are enabling this further with an intentional shift to higher-growth verticals. Our performance simplification efforts are positioning the company towards less cyclical and less capital-intensive markets where we can build our installed base and leverage this to drive software and services growth.

This is being compounded by recent acquisition Access Solutions, LNG process technology, compressor control and defense technology. On innovation, we delivered 4% organic growth from our new product introduction in 2025, with majority coming from innovation in new markets and offering as opposed to upgrade on existing core products.

This is a direct result of our meaningful step-up in R&D investments in 2025, which continues at these levels in 2026 as well as management's focus on growth through new products. On the people side, we have made concerted effort to enhance our talent pool to drive growth. We added approximately 600 engineers to our workforce in 2025, which has greatly bolstered our R&D capacity and have also allocated the overwhelming majority of R&D to new product development.

Additionally, our sales team incentives are now better aligned to our objective of prioritizing the commercialization of new products, further reinforcing our plan to drive growth through innovation while building stronger customer intimacy. With that, I will now turn the call over to Mike to go through our fourth quarter results, starting on Slide 6.

Mike Stepniak
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you, Vimal, and good morning. We ended the year with robust fourth quarter results. Sales grew 11% organically or 6% excluding the impact of the 2024 Bombardier agreement, led by double-digit growth in aerospace and high single-digit growth in building automation. We also continue to drive price across the portfolio, as Vimal noted, which contributed roughly 4 percentage points to the top line.

On a segment basis, Aerospace sales grew 11% organically, excluding Bombardier, led by continued strength in both commercial aftermarket and Defense and Space. Commercial OE growth accelerated as expected from the third quarter as shipments continue to recouple with customers' build rates. Robust demand across all end markets led a third consecutive quarter of strong double-digit order growth and book-to-bill of 1.2.

Building Automation grew 8% organically, supported by growth of 9% in Solutions and 8% in Products. Regionally, North America and Middle East led the overperformance with Europe in up strong mid-single digits as well. Orders increased both year-over-year and sequentially, driven by ongoing momentum across both Building Solutions and Products and highlighted by strength in the projects and fire businesses.

Industrial Automation grew for a second consecutive quarter with organic sales up 1%, led by Warehouse and Workflow Solutions and Sensing as well as return to growth in Productivity Solutions and Services. Process Solutions sales were flat as strength in aftermarket services was offset by lower volumes in measurement and controls products. Finally, organic sales in Energy & Sustainability Solutions declined 7%, stemming from lower petrochemical catalyst shipments coming in slightly below our expectations due to continued project deferrals.

However, orders momentum in UOP continued with over 40% orders growth in refining and petrochemicals projects, which supports our confidence in a gradual 2026 recovery. In total, Honeywell orders grew 23% organically after 22% growth in the third quarter. Wins in long-cycle aerospace, energy and broad-based demand in building automation led the way, resulting in total book-to-bill above 1 and pushing backlog up 15% to a new record.

On profitability, adjusted segment profit increased 23% or 2% excluding Bombardier, with segment margin of 22.8%, led by ongoing margin expansion in Building Automation, partially offset by the timing of high-margin catalyst shipments in ESS and a headwind from a step-up in R&D. In Aerospace, adjusted segment margin expanded 40 basis points sequentially to 26.5% as we again delivered stronger volumes enabled by supply chain improvements, while in BA margins expanded 20 basis points year-over-year to 27%, driven by commercial excellence and volume leverage.

This was partially offset by declines in IA and ESS, driven principally by unfavorable mix from lower catalyst volumes and cost inflation. As a reminder, ESS fourth quarter and full year 2025 results include only the UOP business unit following the fourth quarter reclassification of Advanced Materials to discontinued operations, and this will be the last quarter we present results for ESS.

Adjusted earnings per share of $2.59 was up 17% and down 3% excluding the impact of the Bombardier agreement, driven primarily by higher segment profit and a lower share count, overcoming a $0.24 year-over-year headwind from the timing of taxes. You can find additional information on the fourth quarter adjusted EPS bridge in the appendix of our presentation. Finally, free cash flow of $2.5 billion was up 48% or up 13%, excluding the impact of prior year Bombardier agreement.

Growth in free cash flow was driven by higher operational income and collections, offset by higher cash taxes and interest payments. On capital deployment, we returned $900 million to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share repurchases while funding $300 million in high-return capital projects. We also repaid $2.3 billion of debt in fourth quarter. For the full year, sales increased 7% organically or 6% excluding the impact of the Bombardier agreement, exceeding the high end of original full year guidance by 2 points.

Adjusted segment profit grew 11% or 6% excluding Bombardier, with adjusted segment margin expansion of 40 basis points or contraction of 40 basis points, excluding Bombardier to 22.5%. Adjusted earnings per share was $9.78, up 12% year-over-year or up 7%, excluding Bombardier. Finally, free cash flow was $5.1 billion, up 20% or up 7%, excluding the impact of the Bombardier agreement, representing 14% margin.

We deployed $10 billion to capital in 2025, including $3.8 billion to repurchase 18 million shares, $2.2 billion to acquisitions, $1 billion to capital expenditures and $3 billion to dividends. We also repaid $3.8 billion of debt to lower interest expense. All in all, a very strong performance to end the year with plenty of momentum heading into 2026. With that, let's turn to Slide 8 to discuss our 2026 segment outlook. In Aerospace, we expect top line growth in the high single-digit range organically.

We anticipate continued end market strength supported by resilient supply chain that continues to grow its output. Commercial OE growth should accelerate in 2026 as we move past customer destocking and ramp our shipments alongside increasing production rates, particularly in commercial air transport. Defense & Space should maintain its momentum as higher global spending drives substantial orders growth and record backlog.

Steady increases in flight hours in air transport and business jet underpin ongoing commercial aftermarket strength, though we expect modest normalization in growth rates from the prior year. Segment margin should expand modestly as volume leverage, better pricing alignment with tariff costs and tapering acquisition integration costs more than offset mix pressure from stronger growth in Defense and Space and commercial OE.

For Building Automation, we expect full year sales growth above mid-single digits, highlighted by strength in growing data center and health care end markets. We expect growth to be led by North America and acceleration in Europe on increased investments in health care and decarbonization infrastructure buildup. For the year, both Products and Solutions will grow at similar rates.

We anticipate BA margin to expand over 50 basis points, driven by volume leverage, pricing and productivity actions. Process Automation Technologies sales are expected to be roughly flat organically year-over-year. Slower first half growth in petrochemicals and refining should be offset by robust demand in global projects, particularly in life sciences and cybersecurity solutions. We expect margin to be roughly flat with pricing and productivity offsetting material cost inflation.

And finally, in Industrial Automation, we expect sales to be down low single digits to roughly flat with stable growth in Industrial Solutions offset by headwinds from a challenging prior year comparison in products. Within this framework, we are not assuming any rebound in underlying end market demand. We expect IA to lead margin expansion across all segments in 2026 through meaningful productivity actions and fixed cost reduction.

Let's now turn to Slide 9 to double-click on Process Automation and technology dynamics in 2026. During the second half of 2025, we saw 17% organic orders growth in the new PA&T segment, which led a corresponding 16% rise in the opening backlog. This continues to be a significant part of our long-cycle order strength, particularly in LNG and refining, both in the U.S. and internationally.

The backlog growth gives us confidence in an expected second half ramp, especially when measured against our historical backlog conversion rates. Wins in LNG and a number of large module equipment deals are expected to convert to sales in the back half of the year. In addition, we're encouraged by our pipeline in PA&T, which grew high single digits year-over-year, signaling that the strength of long-cycle orders is expected to persist, contingent on the pace of final investment decisions from our customers.

We're diligently tracking the slower-than-expected aftermarket order rates for catalysts, particularly within petrochemicals, which has been influenced by overcapacity in the market. Catalyst shipments can be temporarily delayed in the short term but are ultimately necessary for our customers to maintain yields, and those can only be deferred for a period of time.

So while we acknowledge the challenges this business faced in 2025, we're encouraged by orders growth and backlog as well as pent-up catalyst demand that should eventually fuel strong growth as we progress through 2026 and into 2027. Let's move to Slide 10 to talk further about our expected segment margin expansion for 2026. In 2026, we anticipate the demand for our differentiated high-value solutions and continued pricing that is outpacing inflation will drive further margin expansion.

On a segment basis, we expect improved volume leverage, principally in our Building Automation, Aerospace Technology businesses, which will drive solid incremental margins, while PA&T margins will be roughly flat in 2026 due to the impact of stronger projects growth in the second half. Our focus on productivity action and rigorous fixed cost management will continue in 2026.

We're working diligently to right size our cost structure ahead of the planned aerospace spin and expect to eliminate the stranded costs in 12 to 18 months after the spin. We have already neutralized the impact of Solstice stranded costs in 2025 through productivity and fixed cost reduction in the rest of the business. Finally, Quantinuum investments in R&D and technology will be a modest headwind to margin in 2026.

As Vimal noted, Quantinuum is making significant commercial and R&D investment to maintain its leadership position in quantum computing. With that as the backdrop, let's move to Slide 11 to go through the details of our full year 2026 guidance. Before we get into the specifics, I want to point out that our 2026 guidance includes full year outlook for Aerospace, Productivity Solutions and Services and Warehouse and Workflow Solutions and does not incorporate the pending acquisition on Johnson Matthey's Catalyst Technologies business.

We intend to update our outlook when these transactions are complete. For the full year 2026, we anticipate sales of $38.8 billion to $39.8 billion, up 3% to 6% organically. We expect growth to be led by aerospace on higher commercial demand and increased defense budgets and building automation driven by new product innovations. This will be partially offset by a slower start to the year in Process Automation Technology, which turns to growth in the second half, driven by order visibility and significantly easier comps and mixed regional and end market dynamics in Industrial Automation.

Segment margins are expected to be up 20 to 60 basis points to 22.7% to 23.1% as the benefits from price execution and productivity actions more than offset cost inflation and a roughly 30 basis points headwind from increased investments in Quantinuum. Industrial Automation will lead for the year, driven by targeted fixed cost takeout, followed by building automation as higher volumes continue to drive margin expansion. Aerospace margin should expand modestly as volume leverage is partially dampened by mix pressures.

Finally, we expect P&T segment margins to be roughly flat year-over-year with pricing and productivity offsetting material cost inflation. We expect a combination of strong top line growth, coupled with productivity and fixed cost reduction will drive adjusted earnings per share of $10.35 to $10.65, up 6% to 9%. Our guidance assumes a 1% reduction in share count stemming from share repurchases. As we have signaled, we intend to focus our cash deployment in 2026 on reducing debt ahead of the separation.

Moving to cash. We expect free cash flow of $5.3 billion to $5.6 billion, up 4% to 10%, which represents an approximately 14% free cash flow margin and 83% conversion at the high end or 90% excluding noncash pension income. Capital expenditures are anticipated to increase by roughly $250 million to support growth investment attached to orders we already have in the backlog. This increase in spending will be funded by improvements in working capital efficiency with a continued focus on aerospace inventory.

Let's move to Slide 12 to briefly review the full year 2026 EPS bridge. The main takeaway on this slide is that the overwhelming majority of our earnings growth in 2026 is expected to come from segment profit growth, adding approximately $0.64 at the midpoint. We expect to benefit from higher volumes, enhanced productivity and favorable price cost, offset by higher investment in Quantinuum, as I noted.

As you can hopefully see, we have fairly clean, high-quality and straightforward path to our 2026 outlook. A few other points to note. Below-the-line expenses should be roughly flat year-over-year as higher pension income of approximately $660 million is offset by increased repositioning expenses as we prepare for separation, while net interest expense remains in line with 2025 levels. We expect the tax rate to remain roughly 19% and average shares outstanding to decline approximately 1%, adding $0.08 to earnings per share.

Additional below-the-line details are available in the appendix of the presentation. Now let's turn to Slide 13 to talk briefly about 1Q guidance. We anticipate first quarter organic sales growth of 3% to 5% organically. By segment, we anticipate organic sales growth in Aerospace, Building Automation and Industrial Automation to look very similar to our full year outlook for these businesses, while Process Automation Technology will be more in line with 4Q '25 levels given the slow start, as mentioned earlier.

In addition, we expect to see normal seasonal step down in revenue from 4Q to 1Q, similar to past years. We expect segment margin to be in the range of 22.4% to 22.6%, flat to up 20 basis points, led by productivity actions in our automation businesses. We anticipate Aerospace margins to be down slightly from the prior quarter on seasonally lower volumes. This will drive adjusted earnings per share growth in the first quarter of 2% to 6%.

We expect a roughly $70 million increase in below the line, driven by higher interest expense from recent acquisition and increased repositioning expense ahead of the separation. Additionally, as we announced last week, following a settlement of all Flexjet-related litigation matters, we made a one-time cash payment of $377 million in the first quarter, which is excluded from our full year free cash flow guidance. I'll now hand the call back over to Vimal to wrap up before Q&A.

Vimal Kapur
Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Mike. We are pleased with our strong finish to 2025 with adjusted sales and adjusted earnings per share exceeding the high end of our guidance range. This performance underscores the resilience of our business model approach and highlights the growing demand for our innovative solution. Looking ahead, our guidance for 2026 is underpinned by continued strength in our orders growth, price execution and record beginning backlog.

As always, our guidance serves as a prudent baseline for performance that we have a strong conviction we can achieve. Moreover, we continue to progress our separation milestone, which we are tracking ahead of plan, paving a clear path for both aerospace and automation to emerge as industry-leading companies in 2026. We look forward to sharing more about our strategy and long-term growth at the upcoming Honeywell Aerospace Investor Day on June 2 and 3 in Phoenix, followed by Honeywell Automation Investor Day on June 11 in New York City.

These events will provide an excellent opportunity for us to engage with our investors and showcase the strength of our portfolio. And before turning to Q&A, I want to take a moment to acknowledge our Head of Investor Relations, Sean Meakim, for all his contribution over the past 4 years. As you know, Sean will be moving to Aerospace with the spin-off to establish another world-class Investor Relations function as he did in Honeywell.

He will be an incredible asset to Craig, Jim and Josh as they begin their journey as a stand-alone entity. Sean effectively communicated the vision and value of Honeywell's strategy with credibility and conviction, laying the framework with investors for our emergence post separation. On behalf of the leadership team and shareholders, I want to thank Sean for your dedication and commitment and say that I could not be happier to have you lead the IR function at Honeywell Aerospace. Congratulations. And with that, Sean, let's take the questions.

Sean Meakim
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks for the kind words, Vimal. I'm very grateful for the opportunity to lead IR and be part of this team. It's been a great learning experience, and I'm really excited about what's ahead for both Aerospace and Honeywell. Vimal and Mike are now available to answer your questions. [Operator Instructions]. Operator, please open the line for Q&A.

