Robinhood Markets, Inc. (HOOD) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 5, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Vladimir Tenev - Co-Founder, President, CEO & Chairman of the Board
Jason Warnick - Chief Financial Officer
Shiv Verma - Senior VP of Finance & Strategy and Treasurer
Chris Koegel - Vice President of Corporate Finance & Investor Relations

Conference Call Participants

Patrick Moley - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Alexander Markgraff - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Devin Ryan - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jeff John Roberts
Brian Bedell - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Dan Dolev - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Brett Knoblauch - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Edward Engel - Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division
Steven Chubak - Wolfe Research, LLC
Madeline Daleiden - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you to everyone for joining Robinhood's Q3 2025 Earnings Call, whether you're tuning into the live stream at home or here with us in person. With us today are Chairman and CEO, Vlad Tenev; CFO, Jason Warnick; SVP of Finance and Strategy and Treasurer, Shiv Verma; and VP of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations, Chris Koegel. Vlad and Jason will offer opening remarks and then open the call to Q&A.

During the Q&A portion of the call, we will answer questions from the audience, which includes institutional research analysts, finance content creators who may hold an ownership position in Robinhood and both institutional and retail shareholders.

As a reminder, today's call will contain forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from our current expectations, and we may not provide updates unless legally required. Potential risk factors that could cause differences, including regulatory developments that we continue to monitor are described in the press release we issued today, the earnings presentation and our SEC filings, all of which can be found at investors.robinhood.com. Today's discussion will also include non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to the GAAP measures we consider most directly comparable can be found in the earnings presentation.

With that, please welcome Vlad and Jason.

Vladimir Tenev
Co-Founder, President, CEO & Chairman of the Board

Good to see everyone. It's great to be here with all of you today. We have a live audience again this time from Downtown San Francisco. And also great to, I think, for the first time in our earnings call, have institutional and retail shareholders, so buy side joining us. So welcome, and thank you.

Also, we have our institutional analysts. So good to see a lot of familiar faces here. Q3 was another quarter of relentless product velocity. So we were excited to see that. It was really across our 3 focus areas, which, as a reminder, #1 in active traders, #1 in wallet share for the next generation, #1 global financial ecosystem. So I'll briefly go through each of these.

Active traders. We want active traders to feel like they are at a disadvantage if they trade anywhere other than Robinhood. And we've rolled out a ton of great new products for active traders. You guys might have seen second annual HOOD Summit in Vegas just a couple of weeks ago. We announced a bunch of brokerage updates, shorting multiple brokerage accounts, AI-driven custom indicators powered by Robinhood Cortex, a whole new social platform, Robinhood Social. And we've got more. We've got more for you guys. We can't wait to share more next month at our first ever AI event on December 16. Innovation like this really has the active trader engine humming. In Q3, we had record equity and option trading volumes, and October looks even better.

For both equities and options in the month of October, we had new single day all-time and new monthly records. So both of those businesses just continuing to perform strongly. Prediction markets are really on fire. It's hard to believe that we launched this just about a year ago with the presidential election markets. We've doubled volume every quarter since then to 2.3 billion contracts in Q3. And the month of October alone was up to 2.5 billion contracts. So October by itself was bigger than all of Q3 combined. Customers really love the product, and we're bringing them even more. We're now at over 1,000 live contracts, and we've expanded categories. So it's not just sports but also economics, politics, culture. We're making the UI much cleaner to experience even better. And I think it's really exciting to see where this can go. I mean, we love being early to this new asset class. And some people are saying this could be one of the largest asset classes because you can price risk in pretty much anything. We have a massive opportunity with assets as well.

Turning to wallet share. Our assets are now up to over 1/3 of $1 trillion as the generational wealth transfer of $120 trillion is fully in motion. So I think it's really great to see our financial super app accelerating. On the long-term money side, retirement, now up over $25 billion, which more than doubled in the past year. And Robinhood Strategies, which we just launched in March, now has over $1 billion in assets and is one of the fastest-growing digital advisers.

On the banking front, Robinhood Gold Card, now over 0.5 million cardholders with over $8 billion in annual spend. So the numbers there just keep growing. That's 5x growth in cardholders since the beginning of the year. And we'll get into this a little bit more in Jason's section, but we like what we see there. The customer behavior is good, and that's given us confidence to accelerate the rollout, and we're going to accelerate it even further. And Robinhood Banking started early customer readout -- early customer rollout quite recently. So far, we like what we're seeing there, too. Customers are direct depositing. You might have seen some nice screenshots of the user experience and the onboarding flow and people really love that they're getting interest, not just on their savings, but they have an opportunity to earn a good interest on checking. So it's really about simplifying things for customers. And the plan is to just keep scaling this, keep adding more services, more products. And last but not least, we've been really grinding to build out the #1 global financial ecosystem.

So 10 years from now, the aim is to have over half of our revenue be outside the U.S. and also cut another way. Right now, we're majority retail. We think we can get to over half being non-retail institutional. And these are tough goals, but I think the opportunity is there, and we're going after it. Three areas of progress to highlight from Q3. tokenization, which are stock tokens in the EU. We're now up to 400-plus public companies and growing. There's a lot of innovation to be done. We're working hard.

Robinhood Ventures in the U.S. So we found a way to give exposure to non-accredited retail to private companies, which we think is super important and a huge opportunity for us. We've already made some initial investments. We're working towards the public offering for Robinhood Ventures in the coming months. Bitstamp around the world, our first scaled institutional business, we're very excited about that. We are continuing to grow. We're adding capabilities. We're adding more institutional customers. Volumes are up 60-plus percent quarter-over-quarter for Bitstamp. And it's great to see that we're accelerating even as we're integrating. And I think that's like not a common thing. It's a big business. I think the team has done a really nice job kind of integrating and making sure that product velocity just continues to increase.

And as a result of all this, great business results in Q3, revenues up over 100% year-over-year to a record of nearly $1.3 billion, record net deposits in the quarter, over $20 billion. We've already exceeded last year's record of $50 billion in net deposits, and we still have another entire quarter to go. So we feel really good about the traction there. Gold subscribers up to a record 3.9 million, and that's 14-plus percent adoption when you look at the overall net account base, and it's nearly 40% for customers that joined in quarter, our new customers. International customers, nearly 700,000 international funded, including Bitstamp. So the U.K. and EU are continuing to grow nicely. And we feel great about Q3 product velocity and results. I think it was a strong quarter, and I'll turn it over to Jason to go through financials before we get into Q&A.

Jason Warnick
Chief Financial Officer

Sounds good. Thanks, Vlad. In Q3, we delivered another quarter of strong profitable growth. Revenue doubled while margins expanded and earnings per share more than tripled from last year. Year-to-date through Q3, revenues are up 65%. Earnings per share is up 150%, and we continue to stay disciplined on expenses to deliver 75% incremental adjusted EBITDA margins. And it's exciting that as our business grows, we're continuing to diversify. In Q3, 2 more businesses, —Prediction Markets and Bitstamp each surpassed $100 million in annualized revenue, bringing us to $11 million in total and underscoring the growing diversification and strength of our business. Prediction Markets reached that milestone in less than a year. It's our fastest in history, and it's already tracking towards a $300 million run rate based on October volumes. So just really, really going fast.

Now let's take a closer look at our Q3 results compared to a year ago. Revenues doubled to an all-time high of nearly $1.3 billion as our customers remained engaged and continue to bring more of their assets to the platform. Trading volumes were up double to triple digits across equities, options and crypto, and we continue to grow market share across product categories. We're also seeing strong contributions from newer products like prediction markets, index options and futures. Interest-earning assets were up over 50%, driven by strong margin and cash sweep growth. It's great to see margin continuing to hit new highs as we win larger customers and gain market share. And securities lending also hit an all-time high with a strong market backdrop as IPO activity continued to pick up. And Robinhood Gold grew to 3.9 million subscribers. That's over 75% year-over-year growth as we continue to broaden the value proposition, including Robinhood Banking, which is just beginning to roll out.

Turning to expenses. Q3 adjusted OpEx and share-based compensation came in at $613 million, it's about $40 million above the midpoint of our prior outlook range. This was driven by 2 items that are both related to our strong performance. First, stronger year-to-date results led to higher Q3 employee bonus accrual. That is higher for Q3, but also includes a catch-up for the first half of the year. And second, the significant increase in our stock price this year triggered vesting on the remaining tranche of the 2019 CEO market-based award. This resulted in unplanned payroll tax expense in G&A. We are through that award now, so glad you get to go back to your $40,000 a year.

Looking ahead to the rest of the year, we're tracking toward full year 2025 adjusted OpEx plus SBC of around $2.28 billion, but it could be higher or lower depending on how the rest of the year plays out. This reflects our strong year-to-date business results, which had us tracking to the top end of our prior outlook range as well as some increased investment in new growth areas like Prediction Markets and Robinhood Ventures. I think each of these areas have significant potential for us. And lastly, this also incorporates the cost of Vlad's market-based award, which were not previously included in our outlook.

I'll also provide a quick update on the strong results we're seeing so far in Q4, as you may have seen in the release. October was a strong month across the business. We saw continued momentum in net deposits, new records set across equities, options, prediction markets, and margin and a nice step-up in crypto volumes.

And before we go to Q&A, I'm sure you saw in the release that I'm going to be retiring next year. I'll transition in Q1 from my operating role into an advisory role and will stay on until September 1. I'm incredibly happy and proud to share that Shiv Verma will be stepping into the role of CFO. I've worked closely with Shiv these past 7 years, and I've got absolutely complete confidence in him. You're going to find that he's seriously world-class.

Vladimir Tenev
Co-Founder, President, CEO & Chairman of the Board

At this time, I'd like to invite Shiv Verma to join us up here. Okay. First of all, I want to thank Jason for all he's done for Robinhood. He's been an incredible steward of the company, not just the finance team, but the entire company and is leaving the finance team in a much stronger position than when he joined. Among his many assets, and you guys are obviously familiar with some of them, I would be remiss to not mention that his good looks were a main reason why we wanted to do these earnings on video, which everyone can agree.

So I'm sure he'll be missed by this audience as well. I also want to congratulate Shiv. He's been working closely with me for some time now. You guys will increasingly see he's an exceptional operator. He's got a strong track record of not just being lean and disciplined, but also advocating for growth. And I think that balance is critical to so much that we do here. Tomorrow, Shiv celebrates 7 years at Robinhood. So while he's got his hands on nearly everything, he's currently SVP of Finance and Strategy and also our Treasurer. So Shiv, welcome. Maybe he'll say a few words as well.

Shiv Verma
Senior VP of Finance & Strategy and Treasurer

Yes. Thank you, Vlad. I'm so excited and humbled for the opportunity to serve our customers and shareholders. Much appreciation to you, the Board and the entire leadership team for the trust. To Jason, a heartfelt thank you. We joined 6 weeks apart, and we've been on quite the journey together. Many of you know Jason is a fantastic CFO, but he's also an incredible colleague, mentor and friend. I just want to express my sincere gratitude.

For today, I'll keep it short and just want to introduce myself. As Vlad said, I've been here a little over 7 years, and I've seen the company scale from a couple of million customers and a few billion assets to now 27 million customers and over $300 billion in assets globally. I work closely with Vlad, Jason and the entire team. I've gotten to worn a lot of different hats. And as Vlad said today, I lead 4 teams: finance, strategy, corp dev, and treasury. In terms of what to expect, big picture, more of the same. Our top goal is still to grow and to keep delivering for customers to ship amazing products with high velocity. We also believe in a lean and disciplined culture, and this is personally where I spend a lot of time. We obsess about capital allocation and ROI. We pride ourselves on small teams that can deliver outsized results, and we believe in profitable growth.

And lastly, our financial North Star is going to remain the same, grow earnings per share and free cash flow per share and compound long-term shareholder value, plain and simple. So I'm excited to partner with everyone. I'll turn it back to Vlad and Jason and talk about this great quarter.

Jason Warnick
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Shiv, and I do look forward to seeing Shiv competing on Jeopardy someday. Chris, why don't we go ahead and take some questions.