HP Inc. (HPQ) Q4 2025 Earnings Call November 25, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Alok Juyal - Global Head of IR
Enrique Lores - CEO, President & Director
Karen Parkhill - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Wamsi Mohan - BofA Securities, Research Division
Brian Luke - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jyhhaw Liu - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Joseph Cardoso - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Michael Ng - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Michael Cadiz - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Maya Neuman - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Mark Newman - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2025 HP Inc. Earnings Conference Call. My name is Regina, and I will be your conference moderator for today's call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the call over to Alok Juyal, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Alok Juyal
Global Head of IR

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to HP's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. With me today are Enrique Lores, HP's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Karen Parkhill, HP's Chief Financial Officer.

Before handing the call over to Enrique, let me remind you that this call is a webcast, and a replay will be available on our website shortly after the call for approximately 1 year. We posted the earnings release and accompanying slide presentation on our Investor Relations web page at investor.hp.com.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our business as we see them today. For more detailed information, please see disclaimers in the earnings materials relating to forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. For a discussion of some of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, please refer to HP's SEC reports, including our most recent Form 10-K. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update any such forward-looking statements. We also note that the financial information discussed on this call reflects estimates based on information available now and could differ materially from the amounts ultimately reported in HP's SEC filings.

During this webcast, unless otherwise specifically noted, all comparisons are year-over-year comparisons with the corresponding year ago period. In addition, unless otherwise noted, references to HP channel inventory refer to Tier 1 channel inventory and market share references are based on calendar quarter information. For financial information that has been expressed on a non-GAAP basis, we have included reconciliations to the comparable GAAP information. Please refer to the tables and slide presentation accompanying today's earnings release for those reconciliations.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Enrique.

Enrique Lores
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Alok, and a special welcome to your first earnings call, and thank you to everyone for joining today's call. Today, we will cover our Q4 performance and 2025 full year results. We will also highlight the opportunities ahead of us, expectations for fiscal year '26 and how we are continuing to advance our company strategy.

I want to begin by saying how proud I am of the progress we have made across our priorities, especially as we have navigated a challenging external landscape. We have driven sequential profit improvement the last 2 quarters, demonstrating our ability to quickly respond to the challenging trade environment we began to face in Q2. We also invested in our supply chain making it more resilient to mitigate future risks, which is core to the Future Ready plan we laid out 3 years ago. Our performance both for the quarter and the full year underscores the strength of our strategy, the power of our portfolio and the tenacity of our team.

Let's start with our Q4 results. I am pleased to report that HP delivered its sixth consecutive quarter of revenue growth, up 4% year-over-year largely driven by Personal Systems gains in Commercial and Consumer. In print, the market remained soft, but we delivered revenue in line with our expectations. Collectively, key growth areas grew double digit year-over-year and delivered gross margin above our core business. Non-GAAP EPS came above the midpoint of our guidance.

We continue to execute our Future of Work strategy. We are accelerating innovation with AI-powered devices that harness AI at the edge and create better together experiences across our portfolio. We are also empowering CIOs with the tools they need to drive transformation, and we are leveraging the power of customer data to deliver meaningful insight. These priorities guide our innovation. For example, we introduced a new edge class device, the AI station powered by NVIDIA, which can run up to 200 billion parameter model. It brings highly performant AI compute to the data instead of moving this data to the cloud for processing.

We also launched innovations that boost productivity. As for example, the industry's first 49-inch ultrawide monitor that integrates AI noise reduction. And focusing on solutions, we are making printing smarter and more intuitive with new AI-driven printing and scanning features. These enhancements make printing easier by cleaning web and e-mail layouts, reducing unnecessary pages. They also streamline everyday tasks, improving scan quality and auto-generating filenames.

Our Workforce Experience platform now uses telemetry from 48 million endpoints to manage 2.4 million connected devices and already remediate more than 12 million IT issues every month. With its new integration with Microsoft Security Copilot, we are bringing generative AI directly into IT management for faster, smarter responses to critical issues. Inside HP, we are adopting our AI-powered innovations first, leading as a customer zero. For example, by deploying AI PCs with curated applications, we are equipping teams to deliver better results with their productivity up 16%.

Now I will take a closer look at the performance of each business unit. In Personal Systems, revenue grew 8% year-over-year, above our expectations. We drove worldwide PC market share gains, particularly in high-value categories, including Commercial and Consumer premium and workstations. With 40% of the installed base still on Windows 10 at the end of Q4, the Windows 11 refresh will remain a tailwind for the PC market into 2026. And demand for AI PCs continues to accelerate, now representing more than 30% of our shipments this quarter. In our key growth areas for Personal Systems, strong performance in data science workstations contributed to double-digit revenue growth in advanced compute solutions.

In print, revenue declined 4%, reflecting market softness and delayed purchasing decisions across all regions. Print units declined year-over-year but improved sequentially. We maintained our #1 share in print. Supply revenue performed as expected, and we gained share.

Looking closer at print key growth areas. Consumer Subscriptions delivered double-digit revenue growth and is just under $1 billion in annual revenue. We continue to see strong adoption of our All-In Plan offering with subscribers up double digits sequentially.

Momentum continued in Industrial Graphics, which exceeded $1.8 billion in annual revenue, driven by the ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth. We also saw double-digit growth in 3D driven by applications in drone and robotics manufacturing.

In Workforce Solutions, double-digit growth was accompanied by key wins in industries such as energy, technology and services. We added 10 new customers from the world's 200 largest companies, a testament to the strength of our sales team.

Turning to our full year performance. Revenue grew by 3%, returning to growth. Our key growth areas collectively grew double digit year-over-year and represented over 1/3 of our revenue for the year. Personal Systems revenue grew 6%, driven by Commercial strength. Print revenue declined 4% as market weakness persisted, and we prioritized placement of profitable units. Supplies revenue declined 2% in constant currency, and we gained share. Operating profits declined as trade-related cost during the year took a few quarters to be absorbed.

Aligned to our commitments, we executed with discipline in a challenging environment, driving a double-digit operating profit increase from the first half to the second. This reflects our ability to act decisively and accelerate supply chain transformation.

HP continues to evolve, highlighted by recent leadership transitions that underscore our focus on combining the best internal and external talent to drive our long-term strategy. I am excited to welcome Ketan Patel as Head of Personal Systems, Manoj Leelanivas as Head of HP Solutions, and Prakash Arunkundrum as Chief Strategy and Transformation Officer to our leadership team. Each brings the right capabilities, experiences and a proven track record of driving innovation and delivering results. I also want to thank Alex Cho and Dave Shull for their many contributions to HP. Their leadership has been instrumental in strengthening our business.

Now let me address the trend of rising memory costs and its implications for our business. Memory costs are currently 15% to 18% of the cost of a typical PC. And while an increase was expected, its rate has accelerated in the last few weeks. Our portfolio is less sensitive to the commodities market than it was during the last memory cycle. Over 1/3 of the PS gross profit comes from services and peripherals. We expect to mitigate the impact of these cost headwinds in the first half of our fiscal year with our inventory on hand and a set of actions across our portfolio and basket of commodities.

For the second half of the year, we expect Personal Systems margins to be impacted. Therefore, we are taking a prudent approach to our guide while implementing aggressive actions to mitigate this. They include qualifying lower-cost suppliers and redesigning the portfolio for reduced memory configurations, accelerating our AI-enabled transformation to drive further cost savings and raising prices in close partnerships with our channel and direct customers. From a supply perspective, we are in a good position due to our strong relationships and long-term contracts with key suppliers.

Moving to fiscal year '26. Our plan is built on 4 pillars. First, in Personal Systems, we expect the revenue market to be up low single digit with Windows 11 refresh, AI PCs and pricing as catalysts. We also expect to see a positive impact from the growth of premium devices including workstations and an increase of attach rate from services and peripherals. Our goal is to perform better than market.

Second, in print, we expect to grow slightly faster than industry projections of low single-digit market decline. We intend to take share by doubling down on Big Tank. We are increasing our marketing investments, driving new product and solution introductions and expanding globally our successful All-In subscription offering. We also intend to grow share in office with new products and solutions designed for SMB and enterprise customers, reinforcing HP's leadership in manageability, security and AI. And we intend to strengthen our leadership in 3D printing and further build on the momentum from labels and packaging to maintain our lead in industrial printing.

Third, in Workforce Solutions, we are focused on growing recurring revenue by expanding our software, security and services businesses. We are also scaling our Workforce Experience platform in key verticals, building on the strong momentum generated in fiscal '25.

Fourth, driving an improved cost structure remains a top priority. We have demonstrated our ability to execute major transformations as part of our Future Ready program, overdelivering on our initial expectations.

And as we look ahead, we see a significant opportunity to embed AI into HP to accelerate product innovation, improve customer satisfaction and boost productivity. We have launched a company-wide program led by an executive reporting directly to me. And we have a line of sight to drive approximately $1 billion of gross run rate savings over 3 years across product development, customer service and support and many of our operational processes. This will result in workforce reductions of 4,000 to 6,000 people over the next years. These are some of the most difficult decisions we need to make, and we are committed to treating our colleagues with care and respect.

We are planning to hold our Investor Day on April 23, where we will share the full plan on how AI is transforming HP. We remain confident in our ability to lead the future of work through technology. With a clear strategy and disciplined execution, we are focused on driving long-term value while managing short-term headwinds.

I will now turn it over to Karen.

Karen Parkhill
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Enrique, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased with our results in Q4, delivering another quarter of solid performance to close out the fiscal year. Our teams executed well driving better-than-expected top line growth, fueled by continued momentum in Personal Systems and in our key growth areas. We delivered operating margins within our expected ranges for both businesses and non-GAAP EPS slightly above the midpoint of our guidance range, underscoring our ability to meet or exceed our financial commitments.

We are also proud of the results we delivered with our multiyear Future Ready cost plan. We surpassed our original $1.4 billion savings target, ultimately delivering $2.2 billion in cumulative gross annualized savings. And on $1.2 billion of restructuring spend, we delivered a savings to charge ratio of almost 1.8x, well above our initially projected ratio of 1.4x.

On the quarter, we delivered revenue growth of 4% year-over-year, both nominally and in constant currency. In constant currency, EMEA grew 6% and APJ was up 9% on strong Personal Systems performance. Americas revenue was flat in constant currency reflecting demand softness in North America, particularly in Commercial. Our gross margin at 20.2% was impacted by a higher mix from Personal Systems and increased trade-related costs, which we partly offset with pricing actions and cost reduction.

Contributions from our Future Ready cost program and continued strong expense management drove operating expenses down as a percent of revenue year-over-year. These efforts also enabled our investment in key strategic and go-to-market initiatives aligned with our Future of Work strategy.

All in, our non-GAAP operating margin was 8%, down year-over-year but improving almost 1 point sequentially, in line with our expectations. And our non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share was $0.93, representing a sequential increase of 24%.

Now let's turn to segment performance. We delivered better-than-expected top line growth in Personal Systems with revenue up 8% on increased ASPs and 7% unit growth. We outperformed the market in both Consumer and Commercial and continued to shift mix toward premium categories while maintaining disciplined pricing to help mitigate cost increases.

Key growth areas performed well, including in AI PCs where we doubled revenue year-over-year. In Commercial, we drove revenue and units up 7% on continued momentum from Win 11 refresh and AI PC adoption. We also delivered strong performance in Consumer, growing revenue 10% on 8% unit growth. We drove higher ASPs and share gains in Consumer premium, in line with our strategy to rebalance our portfolio to a more profitable mix. And with holiday seasonality in Consumer, we delivered revenue and unit growth of 17% sequentially.

As we had signaled, the actions we started earlier in the year to leverage supply chain flexibility, reduce costs and maintain pricing discipline gained traction in the second half. As a result, we drove sequential improvement in our PS operating margins, reaching 5.8% in Q4, in line with our guidance.

In print, our results reflect a pricing environment that remains competitive despite higher industry costs and continued market softness globally as customers delay printer hardware refresh decisions. Against this backdrop, we continue to focus on profitable long-term unit placement, increasing lifetime value per customer and cost reduction actions.

We also drove solid growth in key growth areas in the quarter. Looking at the details. Print revenue declined 4% on lower supplies volume and market-driven hardware declines in both Consumer and Commercial. Consumer revenue was down 9% year-over-year and Commercial revenue down 4% as higher ASPs were offset by lower volumes. Supplies performed as expected, down 3% year-over-year in constant currency. We continue to drive market share gains with favorable pricing that partially offset installed base and usage headwinds. For the year, Supplies revenue declined 2% in constant currency, in line with our long-term range, and we delivered operating margin of 18.9%, in line with our guidance and at the top end of our range.

Now let me move to cash flow and capital allocation. We generated $1.6 billion in cash from operations and roughly $1.5 billion in free cash flow on the strength of the sequential growth in Personal Systems. Free cash flow for the fiscal year was $2.9 billion, consistent with our outlook, and we improved our cash conversion cycle quarter-over-quarter, driving days payable up through higher manufacturing activity.

On capital allocation, we remain committed to returning approximately 100% of our free cash flow to shareholders as long as our gross leverage remains below 2x and there aren't better return opportunities. In Q4, we returned close to $800 million to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchase and returned more than $1.9 billion for the fiscal year. While we finished the quarter slightly above our target leverage ratio, we increased our cash balances, reserving sufficient funds to pay down 2026 debt maturities, which enabled us to buy back shares in the quarter. And if needed, as we move through the year, we can operate with higher cash balances in fiscal '26 to further reduce leverage with maturities in fiscal '27.

Our Q4 and FY '25 results reflect strong execution against challenging trade dynamics with continued sequential improvement as promised in the back half of the year. Looking ahead, our guidance reflects the increasing inflationary pressures predicted for memory costs, which we expect at this point to have an impact as we move into the back half of our fiscal year.

That said, we have a proven track record of managing challenges, and this one will be no different. We are prudently including these pressures in our outlook, yet we remain confident in the strength of our organization and partnerships we've built with our suppliers to deliver the best possible outcome for our shareholders. We are also continuing to invest in driving transformation within the company. And we see a significant opportunity ahead to embed AI into almost all that we do to improve productivity, accelerate innovation and improve customer experiences.

As Enrique said, we have already made excellent progress in identifying key focus areas that are expected to generate approximately $1 billion in gross run rate savings by the end of our fiscal year 2028, and we expect approximately $300 million of those savings to be achieved by the end of fiscal 2026. We estimate associated restructuring charges of around $650 million over the 3-year period, which include roughly $250 million in charges to be incurred in FY '26. We continue to identify additional opportunities as part of this initiative, and we'll share those with you at our upcoming Investor Day.

Now turning to our segment outlook for FY '26. In Personal Systems, we are aligned with industry experts projecting the PC unit TAM to decline in units but the revenue TAM to grow low single digit. Against that backdrop, we expect to gain share in premium categories, including AI PCs, workstations and new device categories and increase our attach of higher-margin offerings, all leading to revenue share gains. And we anticipate revenue to be stronger in the second half of the year, driven by normal seasonality and pricing as needed against rising costs.

On operating margin, we expect the PS OP rate to stay in the 5% to 6% range in the first half of the year. And as Enrique said, we are already taking decisive steps to manage commodity inflation. However, with higher memory cost increases impacting our back half, we estimate our OP rate for the full year could be at the low end of our long-term 5% to 7% range.

In print, we anticipate a low single-digit decrease in the hardware market in 2026, with growth in Big Tank and industrial markets offset by declines in traditional hardware. We expect to outperform the market as we execute our plans to gain share in Big Tank and higher-value office categories through new products and solutions and to expand our subscription business and deliver continued growth in industrial. We also anticipate supplies revenue to be down low single digits in constant currency within our long-term guidance range, with favorable pricing and continued share gains. And we expect print revenue by quarter to be generally in line with historical seasonality. We expect print operating margins for the year to be in the upper half of our 16% to 19% range, while we continue to focus on profitable unit placement and disciplined cost management.

Beyond the segments, we expect Corporate Other and OI&E to be roughly flat year-over-year. And as is typical, we expect Corporate Other expense to be more heavily weighted in Q1 due to the timing of our stock compensation expense.

With all of this, and including an estimated $0.30 impact from projected memory cost increases net of mitigations, we expect FY '26 non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share to be in the range of $2.90 to $3.20 and FY '26 GAAP diluted net earnings per share to be in the range of $2.47 to $2.77.

For Q1, we expect non-diluted net earnings per share to be in the range of $0.73 to $0.81 and first quarter GAAP diluted net earnings per share to be in the range of $0.58 to $0.66. On FY '26 free cash flow, we expect to deliver between $2.8 billion to $3 billion. As typical, we expect the second half to be stronger than the first, consistent with our earnings and recognizing that our first quarter is typically lower given the timing of our incentive comp payment.

Before closing, over the past year since joining HP, I have had the opportunity to not only learn and understand our businesses more deeply but also reflect on key drivers of growth and value ahead. Across both print and Personal Systems, we have a relatively small but growing base of services, subscriptions, software and products as a service that are contractual in nature. And as we look to the future, we intend to drive greater growth in this important base of higher margin, more stable recurring revenue. So expect us to highlight this even more for you as we continue to focus on strengthening our company and increasing the value we offer to our investors.

Lastly, we are pleased to announce today that we are raising our quarterly dividend to $0.30 per share. This is the 10th consecutive annual increase since our separation in 2015 and reflects the confidence we and our Board have in our long-term outlook head.

With that, I would like to hand it back to the operator and open the call for your questions.