Hormel Foods Corporation (HRL) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 4, 2025 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Jess Blomberg - Director of Investor Relations
Jeffrey Ettinger - Interim CEO & Director
Paul Kuehneman - Interim Chief Financial Officer & Controller
John Ghingo - President & Director

Conference Call Participants

Michael Lavery - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Thomas Palmer - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Benjamin Theurer - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Heather Jones - Heather Jones Research LLC
Pooran Sharma - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Leah Jordan - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Max Andrew Gumport - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Erica Eiler - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Yasmine Deswandhy - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Hormel Corporation's Fourth Quarter Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Thursday, December 4, 2025.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to Jess Blomberg. Please go ahead.

Jess Blomberg
Director of Investor Relations

Good morning. Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025. We released results this morning before the market opened. If you did not receive a copy of the release, you can find it on our website, hormelfoods.com under the Investors section, along with supplemental slide materials.

On our call today is Jeff Ettinger, Interim Chief Executive Officer; John Ghingo, President; and Paul Kuehneman, Interim Chief Financial Officer and Controller. Jeff, John and Paul will begin by reviewing the company's fiscal 2025 performance before transitioning into commentary on our outlook for 2026. We will conclude with the Q&A portion of the call. The line will be open for questions following the prepared remarks. [Operator Instructions] At the conclusion of this morning's call, a webcast replay will be posted to the Investors section of our website and archived for 1 year.

Before we start this morning, I'd like to reference our safe harbor statements. Some of the comments we make today will be forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making. Please refer to our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, which can be accessed on our investor website under the Investors section.

Additionally, please note, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures this morning. Management believes that doing so provides investors with a better understanding of the company's underlying operating performance. The presentation of this information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Further information about our non-GAAP financial measures including our comparability items and reconciliations are detailed in our press release, which can be accessed on our website.

I will now turn the call over to Jeff Ettinger.

Jeffrey Ettinger
Interim CEO & Director

Thank you, Jess, and good morning, everyone. Today, we'll briefly review our fiscal 2025 results, then shift our focus to the strategic priorities and outlook for fiscal 2026. I'll begin with a few reflections on the year and our path forward. Paul will provide additional detail on key drivers from 2025, and then John will share our vision for 2026 and the actions we're taking to deliver consistent growth. I'll conclude with our fiscal 2026 outlook before we move on to Q&A.

Fiscal 2025 was a challenging year. Candidly, we fell significantly short of our earnings goal in navigating a dynamic consumer environment, elevated input costs and some unexpected setbacks, our bottom line performance was disappointing. On the other hand, net sales exceeded $12 billion, representing 2% organic growth over the prior year and supported by gains across all 3 segments. We delivered 4 consecutive quarters of year-over-year organic net sales growth. This demonstrates the strength of our protein-forward portfolio.

In the retail segment, our leading brands continue to hold #1 or #2 share positions in over 40 categories. Brands such as Jennie-O, Applegate, Wholly Guacamole and SPAM contributed strong growth for the year. Importantly, the Planters brand grew net sales year-over-year despite first half pressures arising from last year's production disruption. Collectively, these brands represent a wide range of consumer preferences, diverse value propositions and eating occasions. Profitability was pressured across the retail segment, and this decline is reflected in our segment margins. Input cost pressures driven primarily by heightened commodity costs had a challenging impact across our broad retail portfolio in 2025.

The Foodservice segment continued to outperform the broader industry by leveraging our direct sales team, operator-driven innovation and diverse channel presence. Our top line strength was wide-ranging across many brands and categories, including the Jennie-O turkey portfolio, Fire Braised meats, Café H globally inspired proteins, branded pepperoni and branded bacon. These products all showcase the premium protein-centric offerings that operators desire. The broader industry, however, experienced traffic declines and did not grow as expected. This, coupled with higher input costs, tempered the Foodservice segment's 2025 results.

The International segment's results highlight the importance of having a balanced portfolio as some geographies outperformed while others lagged. Our China business was the biggest contributor to the International segment's top line performance in fiscal 2025 and has achieved strong bottom line performance as well. Our branded export business saw a strong top line performance though commodity input costs and trade disruptions weighed on profits. The Brazil market was challenged for us this year and negatively impacted the International segment's ability to deliver on our growth objectives.

At the total company level, our Transform and Modernize initiative played a critical role in offsetting a portion of the margin pressures we faced in 2025. We advanced many strategic pathways under the program, including expanding our distribution network, closing or reallocating product from multiple facilities and advancing our data and process maturity. Much of the work we completed is laying the foundation for growth in future years.

Late in fiscal 2025, we completed an extensive review of all administrative expenses. We made the decision to reduce some of our corporate positions and layers within the organization. This effort resulted in the reduction of approximately 250 corporate and sales positions, representing around 9% of this group. We also addressed the ongoing cost of benefits by making changes to certain programs. While these decisions are never easy, we believe these actions were both needed and responsible. We will also take the opportunity to allocate some savings from this work to reinvest in other areas, such as new capabilities and enhanced support of our growing brands.

We believe we are coming out of fiscal 2025 with a conviction to win and in a position to grow. Paul Kuehneman will now provide a deeper look at our full year and fourth quarter financial performance. But first, I'd like to introduce Paul to our investor community and congratulate him on his new position. Paul stepped into the role of Interim Chief Financial Officer on October 27, and he brings more than 30 years of experience at Hormel Foods, including his ongoing role as Corporate Controller. He is a deeply respected leader with a strong command of our business. I am confident you'll find Paul's insights valuable, and I look forward to you engaging with him more closely.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Paul.

Paul Kuehneman
Interim Chief Financial Officer & Controller

Thank you, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. I'm looking forward to connecting with many of you over the coming months. Let's take a closer look at our results.

As Jeff mentioned, net sales exceeded $12 billion for the full year of fiscal 2025. Top line strength continued in the fourth quarter as total company organic net sales grew 2% compared to the prior year. Profit was challenged this year, and value-added growth was more than offset by year-over-year margin pressures related to higher commodity input costs, supply chain impacts of avian illnesses and some discrete items, each of which I'll dive deeper into.

As previously shared, persistent inflation in key commodity inputs exceeded our expectations and remained elevated compared to prior year levels. Specifically, we experienced over 500 basis points of raw material cost inflation during the fourth quarter alone. For the fiscal year, pork bellies increased approximately 25%, the pork cutout rose about 10% and pork trim increased approximately 20%. Beef remained a significant inflationary pressure across the industry throughout the year.

With respect to turkey, as you'll recall, early in fiscal 2025, we were impacted by avian illnesses across our turkey supply chain and the broader industry. Decrease in turkey supply in the industry have the compounding impact of higher commodity prices. In the fourth quarter, we saw the return of HPAI cases, especially across the Midwest. Collectively, these developments caused challenges during fiscal 2025, and we anticipate continued turkey supply constraints through the first half of 2026.

As we previously discussed, we took pricing actions at various times during fiscal 2025. However, due to the timing of some cost inflation, we cannot fully offset the margin impacts within the fiscal year. In addition, 2 unfortunate events took place during the fourth quarter, a chicken product recall and a fire at our Little Rock facility. Taken together, these events represented approximately $0.03 of negative EPS impacts in fiscal 2025.

The benefits from our Transform and Modernize initiative helped to offset some of these margin pressures in fiscal 2025. We ended the year having delivered benefits within our stated range and are proud of the capabilities this growth initiative has generated for our company. As we move to SG&A, marketing and advertising spend was lower compared to last year. This was a decision to prioritize efficiency in a challenging cost environment. Importantly, although we reduced spending, we remain focused on leveraging more targeted programs to support our brands. Other adjusted SG&A expenses increased during the year, driven in part by higher employee and external expenses.

As we previewed in our fourth quarter business update, we recorded noncash impairment charges in both our International and Retail segments as part of our year-end financial closing process. The International impairment totaled $164 million and was related to a minority investment in Indonesia, an investment that remains both valuable and strategically important to us. Our Retail segment impairments were $71 million, primarily related to our snack nuts business. We remain confident that our investment thesis is intact, and we are still excited about the snack nuts category and the protein diversification within our portfolio.

Operating income for fiscal 2025 was $719 million, and adjusted operating income was just over $1 billion. Operating margin was 5.9% and adjusted operating margin was 8.4%. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2025 was 28%, which was impacted by our fourth quarter minority investment impairment. For the full year, diluted EPS was $0.87 and adjusted diluted EPS was $1.37. For the fourth quarter, we recognized a diluted loss per share of $0.10. Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.32. We recognize these results are well below our initial expectations for the year, but as Jeff mentioned, we have laid a solid foundation for a return to growth in fiscal 2026.

I'd like to touch on a few other financial priorities for the fiscal year. We closed the year in a strong financial position with ample liquidity and a conservative level of debt. Cash flow from operations was $845 million in fiscal 2025 and inventories at fiscal year-end were $1.7 billion, an increase of $171 million from the beginning of the year. Capital expenditures were $311 million in fiscal 2025. We invested in high-priority businesses with capacity expansions for Hormel Fire Braised and Applegate products. Our investments also advanced data and technology, people safety and animal welfare. Finally, we invested capital in our Jiaxing, China, facility to support growth.

In fiscal 2025, we returned a record $633 million to our shareholders in the form of dividends, including our 389th consecutive quarterly dividend. We recently announced an increase to our quarterly dividend of 1%, raising the implied annualized rate to $1.17 per share for fiscal 2026, making Hormel Foods one of the distinguished dividend aristocrats with 60 consecutive years of dividend increases.

Finally, this year marked our second safest year on record following a historic achievement in 2024. I'm incredibly proud of our team members for their commitment to people safety, keeping it front and center every day and making it a core part of how we operate.

And with that more detailed context on our results, I'll turn the call over to John to walk through our strategic focus areas for fiscal 2026.

John Ghingo
President & Director

Thank you, Paul. In fiscal 2025, our protein-centric portfolio demonstrated strength with consumers. We leave the year ready to build off our top line momentum by leaning into our portfolio of winning brands and products. Protein demand isn't a passing trend. It's a sustained growing priority for so many different consumer groups. Hormel Foods is excited to lead the way, delivering real protein solutions for everyday occasions.

As we turn the page to 2026, we have every reason to be confident. We are focused on winning in attractive consumption spaces by positioning our brands and innovation where they have the most significant opportunities and prioritizing our resources to fuel growth.

Hormel holds a truly unique position in the food industry, an advantage we've built over many years. We have a balanced protein-centric portfolio with broad capabilities to create value and win with proteins. This, coupled with our extensive reach across Retail and Foodservice channels provides a strategic advantage that we believe is compelling and unmatched in today's industry.

We've evolved from a meat company into a consumer-focused company. But unlike other consumer food companies, we are the consumer company that wins with protein. We deliver winning protein solutions for breakfast, lunch, dinner and every snack in between, at home or away from home, animal-based or plant-based, whether you're cooking or someone's cooking for you. Hormel is ready to provide great-tasting solutions aligned with some of the most enduring consumer trends in the food industry, ease and convenience, flavor experiences and the growing desire for more protein.

Today, I'll share 3 focus areas that will guide us in 2026. The first focus is consumer obsession. We already have a strong foundational understanding of our consumers and operators. But in 2026, we are taking that a step further. We are actively listening, learning and anticipating, to better understand the challenges and aspirations of our consumers and operators, all so we can better design solutions and experiences that uniquely meet and even exceed their needs for food occasions. We have great examples of how we have already put this framework into action.

Take our Bacon platform as an example. We've spent many hours in the kitchens of our consumers and operators understanding their pain points. We uncovered a clear insight. People love bacon and want to consume it more often, but they want it to be as effortless as possible to prepare. This insight led us to innovations that make bacon easy in any kitchen. In operators' kitchens, we brought them our high-quality quick-prep Bacon 1 platform. And now we are introducing the next generation of easy for our operator partners with precooked and pre-portioned sandwich-ready bacon.

In the home kitchen, we've climbed to the #1 position in the convenient bacon category through our pre-portioned ready-to-heat microwave-ready platform, and we are now building distribution on the next iteration of making bacon easy at home with our oven-ready bacon platform, an innovation that all but eliminates the cleanup with a disposable oven tray. Grounded in real consumer insights, we're making sure bacon is accessible and easy for all.

Through deep engagement with consumers, we've uncovered another key challenge. Finding better for you, convenient and versatile meal options is harder than it should be. We've listened closely to those who struggle with this tension. And as leaders in protein, we have been able to provide a range of easy meal solutions made possible by our leading portfolio in ground turkey. Our Jennie-O marketing program presents and offers varied meal solutions that are rooted in meeting consumers' meal-time needs for lean, satisfying protein options that are easy to plug into daily life. And we see plenty of opportunities to do even more to aid consumers during meal times with our leading Jennie-O brand and relevant turkey products in the future.

These successes show how our consumer obsession can drive real marketplace leadership, and this is only the beginning. Throughout the year, you can expect to see these insights come to life in bold, tangible ways as we continue to execute and accelerate growth by looking at the world through the eyes of our consumers and operators.

Building on these consumer insights, our second focus is taking our brands beyond boundary by breaking out of their traditional categories and unlocking new growth. We are stretching our brands to their full potential by leveraging their protein advantage and unlocking big wide open marketplace opportunities. Protein can play an even broader role throughout the day, across different occasions and channels, and we are stepping into these growth opportunities with our protein-centric portfolio.

Take our SPAM brand as an example, our team saw an opportunity to take SPAM into new formats beyond the can. Inspired by global food culture, we reimagine new occasions for the brand, introducing a sushi style format, now featured in sushi departments nationwide. This innovation taps into new consumers sourcing from the large and growing sushi category. SPAM's success in this product format isn't just a domestic success. By the end of fiscal 2025, over 100 million SPAM musubis have been sold in Japan alone, an incredible milestone made just 3 years after the launch.

Chicken is another attractive growth space with increasing consumer opportunity. And as a protein-centric consumer company, we are thinking bigger. Our innovative mindset and strong extendable brands allow us to follow consumer demand and deliver the experiences they crave. For Applegate, that means leveraging chicken to penetrate on-trend categories like quick-prep breakfast and easy dinner, with better-for-you options such as frozen chicken breakfast sausage and lightly breaded chicken tenders for later in the day.

In Foodservice, we're building on the success of our Flash 180 platform. Beyond the chicken breast, we're tapping into the growing demand for chicken tenders and chicken sandwiches by providing operators with a customizable solution that simplifies their back-of-the-house operations. These moves show how we're not just following trends, we're fueling them, expanding our reach and unlocking new growth opportunities.

The third focus is becoming future-ready, rooted in some basic principles so we can focus on our company premise nourishing protein solutions. We are simplifying our company, and we are renovating ourselves. Portfolio reshaping is a priority. We are focused on strategic categories and brands with long-term growth potential and have made deliberate decisions to simplify. We recently announced plans to move the Justin's business into a strategic partnership to enable its best path forward. We also recently exited certain private label product lines, and we announced the closure of a nonstrategic soup stock operation to simplify our supply chain.

For internal renovation, we are committed to advancing our data, technology, people and processes. One exciting example is how we are utilizing AI to accelerate and improve our marketing. For SKIPPY, our team leveraged generative AI to create over 25 high-quality seasonally relevant pieces of content in a single day, a game changer for creating impactful content at scale. These assets are now powering engagement through the critical holiday season. This is only the beginning of how we're leveraging AI to boost efficiency and unlock creativity across our brands.

Beyond marketing and innovation, we're implementing AI-enabled tools like o9 and streamlined processes such as integrated business planning, transforming how we plan and make decisions every day. Enhanced data access, cutting-edge technology and modernized workflows are reinventing nearly every aspect of our business, across all aspects of our supply chain, cross-functional collaboration and all the way to the physical and digital shelf. This includes new tools leveraging data and analytics for areas such as pricing, revenue growth management, real-time portfolio management and assortment optimization decisions.

The focus areas I described are underway now, though we understand our efforts must translate to margin expansion and sustainable profitable growth. We believe this strategic path sets us apart in the marketplace by better meeting the needs of our consumers and operators with our unique and potent protein-centric portfolio, we have the opportunity to deliver consistent profitable growth.

With that, I will turn the call back over to Jeff to click into our 2026 outlook and assumptions.

Jeffrey Ettinger
Interim CEO & Director

We said on our third quarter call that our goal is to return to the algorithm of 2% to 3% organic net sales growth and 5% to 7% operating income growth. These goals are intentionally ambitious but are grounded in the strength of our portfolio and take the broader food industry environment into consideration. We are providing fiscal 2026 guidance with a slightly wider range than our growth algorithm. This approach accounts for the dynamic current environment and supports our flexibility to navigate near-term volatility, while remaining firmly focused on the strategic priorities John just outlined.

Let's turn now to our guidance and the key assumptions behind it. In fiscal 2026, we expect organic net sales growth of 1% to 4%. As John discussed, we think our protein-centric portfolio, coupled with our demonstrated strength and presence in both Retail and Foodservice, puts us in an advantaged strategic position going forward. We already saw momentum on the top line in fiscal 2025 and plan to build on this momentum in fiscal '26 through enhanced marketing support. In fact, a number of these campaigns are already underway as the holidays are key season for many of our strategic brands.

Our guidance also accounts for pricing actions across our portfolio. The steep increases in input costs in the summer and fall of '25 precipitated 2 waves of pricing actions on many products, and the realization of the second wave will allow us to restore more balance with these inflated costs. In fiscal 2026, we expect adjusted operating income growth of 4% to 10% and adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.43 to $1.51 per share.

Regarding key input cost assumptions in our outlook, we expect pork input cost to decline compared to fiscal 2025, but still remain above the 5-year average. Beef costs remain high and are expected to be a headwind throughout fiscal '26. And nut costs are anticipated to be elevated from the prior year as well. We also expect to see stronger turkey markets in fiscal '26.

Gross margin expansion is expected to be driven by a variety of levers, including mix improvements, the wraparound pricing benefits that I just mentioned and productivity from our Transform and Modernize initiative. I want to be clear about our intentions with regard to the Transform and Modernize initiative. Our efforts will continue in fiscal 2026. However, we do not plan to report T&M savings separately going forward. We believe its financial benefits will be spread in supporting our enhanced marketing programs, offsetting some of the continued inflationary pressure and allowing us to expand margins, and this is all accounted for in the range of our guidance.

Regarding SG&A, as I shared in my opening remarks, our recently announced corporate restructuring designed to support strategic priorities and long-term growth is expected to result in savings in nonadvertising spending in fiscal 2026. We expect each of our segments to deliver both top line and segment profit growth in fiscal 2026. And for further segment guidance information, please refer to our supplemental slides on our Investor Relations website.

From a cadence standpoint, we expect Q1 earnings to decline compared to prior year, mainly due to timing of the impacts of pricing, commodity input costs and some lingering impacts from our fourth quarter. We believe our full year guidance range is achievable and realistic. It demonstrates the value of our balanced protein-centric portfolio and positions us for sustainable long-term growth.

With that, I will turn the call over to the operator to begin our Q&A portion of the call, and we look forward to your questions.