HSBC Holdings plc (HSBC) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 3:45 AM EDT

Company Participants

Manveen Kaur - Group CFO & Executive Director

Conference Call Participants

Aman Rakkar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Guy Stebbings - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division
Katherine Lei - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Benjamin Toms - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Joseph Dickerson - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Jiahui Yan - China International Capital Corporation Limited, Research Division
Kian Abouhossein - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Amit Goel - Mediobanca - Banca di credito finanziario S.p.A., Research Division
Alastair Warr
Andrew Coombs - Citigroup Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the analyst and investor webinar on the 3Q results for HSBC Holdings plc. For your information, this call is being recorded.

I will now hand over to Pam Kaur, Group CFO.

Manveen Kaur
Group CFO & Executive Director

Welcome, everyone. Thank you for joining. We are making positive progress towards creating a simple, more agile growing HSBC. The intent and discipline with which we are executing our strategy is reflected in the momentum this quarter and our target upgrades. Most notably, our annualized RoTE of 17.6% year-to-date excluding notable items.

Throughout this presentation, I'll focus on year-over-year comparisons. This will exclude notable items and be on a constant currency basis. The equivalent comparisons on a reported basis can be found on Slides 16 and 22.

Let's turn straight to the highlights. We reported a strong quarter. Total revenues grew $500 million to $17.9 billion. Wealth had another good quarter, with 29% growth in fee and other income. Our customer deposit balances stand at $1.7 trillion. If we include held-for-sale balances, these grew by $86 billion. We are also investing for growth.

On 9th October, we announced our intention to privatize Hang Seng Bank. We see this as a compelling opportunity. Let me set out clearly our reasoning. First, it meets all four of our criteria for acquisitions. Second, we see good growth in Hong Kong in the years ahead. It's a business, in a whole market we know very well. Third, we see an opportunity to create greater alignment for better operational leverage and efficiencies. Fourth, we are acquiring a business with structurally high pre-impairment margins. And while we are not calling the credit cycle, we believe it is a cycle. Fifth, we are removing a $3 billion capital inefficiency.

This is a transaction which we initiated as a growth investment. It is also a statement of our confidence in the outlook for Hong Kong. We are in an offer period, so we are unable to give more details on synergies at this stage. What I will say is that consolidating the noncontrolling interest from the profit and loss increases our profit attributable to ordinary shareholders.

We have also said that we see the potential for additional revenue through expanded capital market products to Hang Seng commercial clients and Wealth products to its affluent clients. And we can simplify and streamline decision-making processes, improve operational risk management and better align operations, which we expect will result in efficiencies.

We are confident the integration will not distract us from organic growth and it's more value generative than a share buyback.

Turning now to upgrades. We are delivering against the targets we set out to you. We are now upgrading two items: our 2025 banking NII to $43 billion or better, our 2025 RoTE, excluding notable items to be mid-teens or better. We remain disciplined with our shareholders' capital, investing it where we see growth, exiting businesses with the intention to redeploy the costs where we don't.

We are progressing at pace with the exit of nonstrategic activities. This quarter, we have announced the exits of HSBC Malta and Retail Banking in Sri Lanka. This brings our total announced exits to 11 so far this year.

Last week, we announced that we are conducting a strategic review of our Egyptian retail banking business. The review will not include our wholesale banking activities in Egypt, which remains an important market and one we believe has strong potential for growth. Finally, we are on track to achieve our target of around 3% cost growth in 2025 compared to 2024 on a target basis.

Let's now turn to the firm-wide financial results. First, the income statement. Annualized RoTE was 16.4% in the third quarter or 17.6% year-to-date, both excluding notable items. Revenue grew 3% year-on-year to $17.9 billion in the quarter. This was driven by a return to growth in banking NII and strong fee and other income. Profit before tax was $9.1 billion.

Looking at our capital and distributions. Our CET1 capital ratio is 14.5%, and we continue to target a dividend payout ratio for 2025 of 50% of earnings per ordinary share, excluding material notable items and related impacts.

Let's now turn to our business segment performance. We grew total revenue by 3%, and each of our four businesses returned greater than mid-teens annualized RoTE.

Moving now to banking NII. $11 billion this quarter is a return to growth driven by deposit volumes. We are raising our full year guidance to $43 billion or better. I know you will have questions on the outlook. So I'll note here the multiple drivers of banking NII. HIBOR, which has recovered; deposit growth, which continues; interest rates, where the Fed is still cutting. We have grown our structural hedge to $585 billion and its rolling on to higher yields. I'll also just mention that the chart on the left is on a constant currency basis, while our full year guidance is as reported. There is a reconciliation in the footnote.

Turning now to wholesale transaction banking. We are pleased with our strong ongoing customer engagement. This year has really validated the strength of our franchise in a range of economic and tariff situations. Both payments and trade grew again in the third quarter. In trade, I would note the first half was particularly strong as we supported customers to navigate a fast-changing trade landscape.

In security services, fee and other income grew 15%. This was due to higher asset balances given improved valuations and new customer mandates in Asia and the Middle East. In FX, performance reflects lower currency volatility and a strong prior year comparison. Looking through this, performance of $1.3 billion was strong.

Turning now to Wealth. We delivered 29% fee and other income growth to $2.7 billion. This shows our strategy is working. Net new invested assets were $29 billion, with more than half coming from Asia at $15 billion. This takes total invested assets to $1.5 trillion. Wealth was driven by all four income lines. Our insurance CSM balance is up by $2.5 billion year-to-date. This is driven by strong new business. I would note that we review our insurance assumptions in the third quarter, favorable experience and strong market performance slightly flatter at these figures.

Private Banking grew 8%; and Asset Management, 6%, respectively. Investment distribution also performed very well, up 39%, reflecting strength in our customer franchise in Hong Kong. And Wealth is not just a Hong Kong story. It runs across our Asian franchise with double-digit fee and other income growth in Singapore, Mainland China and other markets.

We are providing you with a little extra color this quarter on our Hong Kong flows on the next slide. We are pleased to have added 318,000 new-to-bank customers this quarter. This brings us to more than 900,000 year-to-date. What this slide shows, over a slightly longer period is that nonresident customers have been a significant driver of customer activity and balances. These new-to-bank customers have contributed up to 1/3 of flows across deposits, investments and insurance. We see new nonresident customers as a significant and long dated opportunity for the bank.

Now let's turn to credit. ECL of $1 billion is flat year-over-year and down modestly on the second quarter. We retain our full ECL guidance of around 40 basis points. Our ECL charge this quarter includes $0.2 billion Hong Kong commercial real estate. On Slide 19, you will see we have updated the Hong Kong commercial real estate slide we showed you at the half year. Other charges include $150 million from a Middle East-based customer, $0.3 billion in the U.K., $0.2 billion in Mexico and a $0.1 billion release due to improved economic assumptions.

Now let's turn to costs. We remain on track to achieve our target of around 3% cost growth in 2025 compared to 2024 on a target basis. Year-to-date, we have taken actions to realize $1 billion of annualized simplification savings with no meaningful impact on revenues. We continue to expect $0.4 billion simplification savings to be realized in the full year 2025 P&L.

It's worth noting that there is some slight seasonality to costs in the fourth quarter, which also includes the U.K. bank levy. This quarter, we have $1.4 billion of legal provisions on historical matters, which don't impact our ongoing business. They consist of $1.1 billion, as you will have seen in yesterday's announcement relating to made-of litigation, which is a material notable item and, therefore, does not impact any dividend, and $0.3 billion related to historical trading activities in Europe, which is a notable item.

I would also just draw your attention to Appendix Slides 16 and 17, where we detail recent and potential future notable items. This leads us to our exit of nonstrategic activities, which we will discuss on the next slide.

We are progressing at pace. With our exit of nonstrategic activities, this slide sets out that progress. The red boxes show the exits announced in each quarter, the gray, those in prior quarters. Given the phasing of the sale processes, only Grupo Galicia is currently complete with others to follow.

In the third quarter, we have announced Malta and Retail Banking in Sri Lanka. Last week, we announced that we are conducting a strategic review of our Egyptian retail banking business. As I said earlier, the review will not include our wholesale banking activities in Egypt, which remains an important market. As a reminder, costs released from the exits of a nonstrategic activities will be invested in our priority growth areas at accretive returns.

Now let's turn to customer deposits and loans. Including held-for-sale balances, we've had another strong quarter with $86 billion of growth in deposits in the last 12 months. By business, there is some volatility this quarter. Silver bond subscriptions in Hong Kong moved deposits from Hong Kong business to CIB for a few days over quarter end, benefiting CIB balances. CIB also benefited with -- from some large client deposits, which may be short dated. Overall, we see good momentum in our customer deposit franchise.

In the U.K., lending was the standout. We saw continued growth in mortgages and our commercial lending book. Infrastructure being a key area of focus. In our U.K. business, the book has grown 5% year-over-year, which includes a drag from the repayment of COVID loans. We see low levels of household and corporate debt in the U.K., which we expect to provide a platform for the continued growth of our franchise. In Hong Kong, we saw customer repayments and corporate deleveraging notably in the commercial real estate space. Credit demand remains muted.

Now turning to capital. Our CET1 is 14.5%, reflecting strong organic capital generation during the quarter. We said with the announcement of the Hang Seng offer that we do not expect buybacks for the next 3 quarters. That is, of course, dependent on underlying capital generation with strong profitability and currently modest loan growth via highly capital generative.

Finally, let's turn to targets and guidance. In summary, the intent with which we are executing our strategy is reflected in the growth and momentum in our performance this quarter. It again shows discipline, performance and delivery. Discipline in the way we are applying strong cost control. We are on target to achieve our target of around 3% cost growth in 2025 compared to 2024 on a target basis. Our simplification saves are ahead of our previous expectation. We have announced 11 exits so far this year. We will continue to progress at pace and invest costs released from exits into priority growth areas.

Performance in our earnings. Each of our four businesses is making mid-teens RoTE or better, excluding notable items. Delivery, our third quarter results show that we are creating a simple, more agile growing HSBC. Revenues grew and excluding notable items, our year-to-date 17.6% RoTE demonstrates that we are delivering against the targets we set out to you. That is why we expect 2025 RoTE, excluding notable items to be mid-teens or better.

With that, I'm happy to take your questions.