Infosys Limited (INFY) Q3 2026 Earnings Call January 14, 2026 7:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Sandeep Mahindroo - VP, Financial Controller & Head of Investor Relations
Salil Parekh - MD, CEO & Director
Jayesh Sanghrajka - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Ankur Rudra - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Bryan Bergin - TD Cowen, Research Division
Ashwin Mehta - AMBIT Capital Private Limited, Research Division
Abhishek Pathak - Motilal Oswal Securities Limited, Research Division
Yu Lee - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Vibhor Singhal - Nuvama Wealth Management Limited, Research Division
Keith Bachman - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Gaurav Rateria - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Sandeep Shah - Equirus Securities Private Limited, Research Division
James Friedman - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Dipesh Mehta - Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, good day, and welcome to Infosys Limited Q3 FY '26 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded. I now hand the conference over to Mr. Sandeep Mahindroo. Thank you, and over to you, Mr. Mahindroo.

Sandeep Mahindroo
VP, Financial Controller & Head of Investor Relations

Hello, everyone, and welcome to Infosys Earnings Call for Q3 FY '26. Let me start by wishing all of you a very happy New Year. Joining us on this call is CEO and MD, Mr. Salil Parekh; CFO, Mr. Jayesh Sanghrajka, along with other members of the leadership team. We'll start the call with some remarks on the performance of the company, subsequent to which the call will be opened up for questions. Please note that anything we say that refers to our future outlook is a forward-looking statement that must be read in conjunction with the risks that the company faces. A complete statement and explanation of these risks is available in our filings with the SEC, which can be found on www.sec.gov. I'd now like to pass on the call to Salil.

Salil Parekh
MD, CEO & Director

Thanks, Sandeep. Good evening and good morning to everyone on the call. Thank you for joining us. Warm wishes to you for the new year. We had a strong performance in Q3. Our revenues grew 0.6% sequentially and 1.7% year-on-year in constant currency terms. Our large deals were at $4.8 billion with 57% net new. This was across 26 deals. Our adjusted operating margin was 21.2%. We generated free cash flow of $915 million.

One of the most significant large deals we won was with the National Health Service in the U.K. This $1.6 billion deal expands our work in the health care sector. We will help NHS leverage AI to streamline operations and improve patient care for U.K. citizens. We have deepened our Topaz AI capability with an agent services suite called Topaz Fabric. This suite helps our clients manage and implement AI agents across the enterprise.

We are expanding our strategic partnerships with AI companies. We recently announced a partnership with Cognition. Here, we will combine Cognition's Devon software agent with Infosys' knowledge of the client landscape and industry expertise. We are already working with them across clients. Industry analysts recognize Infosys for its leadership in AI. In financial year 2026, we were recognized as a leader across 12 ratings. We had strong momentum in AI adoption across our client base. Today, we work with 90% of our 200 largest clients to unlock value with AI.

We are currently working on 4,600 AI projects. Our teams have generated over 28 million lines of code using AI. We built over 500 agents. We are scaling our forward deployed engineer team. Our clients are turning to us as trusted partners to drive value realization from AI investments. Some of the areas they focus on are fragmented data, legacy application landscape and business workflows that are not conducive for AI.

We bring together a deep understanding of clients' technology landscape, strong data engineering and process reimagination capabilities to help them capture value at scale from AI. We aspire to make AI work for clients delivering business outcomes for cost, revenue growth and innovation.

We are witnessing 6 AI-led value pools emerging that could unlock a large incremental opportunity for us. We also see productivity-led benefits that compress some legacy areas. The 6 value pools of opportunity in AI services we see are AI engineering services, data for AI, agents for operations, AI software development and legacy modernization, AI and physical devices and AI services.

We believe we are uniquely positioned to capture market share across these value pools and emerge as the leading AI value creator for global enterprises. We will share a comprehensive view on our approach at an Investor Day later this quarter. In Financial Services, we see good traction in large deals and discretionary projects. In Financial Services and in energy, utilities, resources and services verticals, we expect acceleration in financial year 2027 over financial year 2026. This is based on good deal wins and AI partner status with 15 of our largest 25 clients in each of these verticals.

With the strong performance in this quarter, we have revised our revenue guidance for the financial year. The new revenue growth guidance for this financial year is 3% to 3.5% growth in constant currency. Our operating margin guidance for the financial year remains the same at 20% to 22%. With that, let me hand it over to Jayesh for his update.

Jayesh Sanghrajka
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Salil. Good morning, good evening, everyone, and thank you for joining the call today. First of all, a very happy New Year to all of you. Coming to the quarter. Our Q3 performance demonstrates continued momentum we saw in the last 2 quarters, underscoring resilience of our business model, relevance of our offerings and our disciplined execution. We had another quarter of growth despite seasonal weakness and reduction in third-party costs. The results for Q3 FY '26 include a charge associated with change in labor codes in India, which had an impact on operating profit, net profit, EPS, free cash flow for the quarter.

Reference to the adjusted numbers exclude the impact from the same. Revenue for Q3 was $5.1 billion, up 0.6% sequentially and 1.7% year-on-year basis in constant currency terms. Operating margins include the impact of change in labor codes stands at 18.4%. Adjusting for the same, it is at 21.2%. Key highlights of the quarter are as follows: -- we achieved strong revenue growth despite seasonality and lower third-party costs. Third-party as a percentage of revenue reduced by 0.3% sequentially and approximately 2.4% on a year-on-year basis.

With 3 strong quarters of performance, our revenue growth in 9 months stood at 2.8%, which is at the higher end of our earlier guided range. This is despite the lower third party, which has reduced by approximately 1% compared to the same period last year and now stands at 7.3%. Momentum in Financial Services continues with 3.9% year-on-year in constant currency terms.

Among geos, Europe continued to lead the growth by 7.2% year-on-year in constant currency terms. Volumes continue to remain soft for the quarter and the year. On a 9-month basis, RPP increased, reflecting continued momentum of value-based selling and productivity increases that we have achieved. Adjusted operating margins increased by 20 basis points sequentially to 21.2%. We continue our investments in sales and marketing, which has increased by double digits this year to date and impacting margins by approximately 50 basis points.

Utilization, excluding trainees was down by 1% sequentially at 84.1% and including trainees, was down by 2.2% to 80% as we continue to create capacity for future growth opportunities. Our adjusted margins for 9 months are at 21% at midpoint of guidance after absorbing accelerated investment in sales and marketing as well as lower utilization. On-site mix further reduced by 10 basis points in Q3 and by 70 basis points in 9 months FY '26.

Investment in talent continues. Net headcount increased by 5,000 to 337,000 employees. LTM attrition declined by 2% sequentially and 1.4% on a year-on-year basis, reflecting both market conditions and our focus on employee retention and upskilling. Large deal TCV was robust at $4.8 billion in Q3 with 57% net new. Total large deal TCV for 9 months stood at $11.7 billion, exceeded the total large deal TCV of full year FY '25. Net new deal TCV for 9 months was up by 40% as compared to the same period last year.

Large deal pipeline continues to be healthy. Our razor-sharp focus aided by the deployment of AI agents on our order to receivable cycle has resulted in decline of 5 days in DSO, including net unbilled to 82 days sequentially. Driven by strong collections, free cash flow generation adjusted for labor codes remained robust at $965 million, which is 113% of adjusted net profit. Adjusted free cash flow conversion for 9 months stood at 118%.

Adjusted EPS in rupee terms for 9 months FY '26 grew at double digits at 11.5%. During the quarter, we successfully completed our largest ever buyback, returning INR 18,000 crores to our shareholders, which will help EPS accretion. We also paid out interim dividend for FY '26 in line with our capital allocation policy.

Adjusted operating margins for Q3 expanded by 20 basis points to 21.2% sequentially. Major components of changes are as below: Tailwinds of 40 basis points from currency movement, 40 basis points from Maximus comprising primarily of value-based selling, critical portfolios and lean and automation, offset by 70 basis point impact from furloughs and lower working days. The impact of higher variable pay was partly offset by one-off benefits during the quarter.

Consolidated cash and investments were at $3.9 billion at the end of the quarter after returning $3 billion to the shareholders in the form of dividend and buyback. Yield on cash balance was at 6.19% and ROE stood at 32.8%. We signed 26 large deals during the quarter, including 2 mega deals. This includes 10 in financial services, 4 in retail, 3 each in Life Sciences and Manufacturing, 2 each in communication, EURS and high-tech. Region-wise, we signed 16 deals in America, 9 in Europe and 1 in Rest of World.

Coming to verticals. We see continued momentum in financial services with approximately 5% growth in last 9 months, led by large deal wins and uptick in discretionary spends across subverticals like banking, payments, mortgages, along with assets and wealth management. There is elevated interest in AI-led transformation, platform modernization and vendor consolidation.

We are seeing a shift from compliance to business growth. Significant core transformation across all FS subvertical is creating strong long-term strategic pipeline, providing good IP platform partner opportunities. We are now a preferred AI partner for top 15 out of 25 banking clients. Uptick in discretionary spend in aforementioned subverticals and deal wins in recent quarters positions us favorably for better growth in FY '27.

Manufacturing vertical is also impacted by tariff uncertainties, which is preventing clients from committing to long-term investment. Discretionary spend is under pressure and decision-making is slow. Industrial and aero are doing well, but auto sector remains challenged. Clients are prioritizing cost discipline, consolidation and efficiency, and we are supporting them through digital rationalizations and AI-led productivity initiatives.

Overall pipeline remains healthy and focus on cost takeouts, infra consolidation and ERP modernization. EURS companies are increasingly allocating budgets towards AI infrastructure, data readiness, cloud and software platforms. There is demand for setting up GCCs across sectors with most clients looking at SI to complement their GCC strategy.

We are a preferred AI partner for top 15 out of top 25 clients. We are seeing an increase in discretionary demand in utilities and energy, which should lead to growth acceleration in FY '27. Utility sector is witnessing increasing in demand driven by massive investments in infra and AI data centers. While discretionary demand in energy sector is focused on decarbonization and low-carbon solutions, there is also focus on cost optimization and consolidation due to enterprise AI adoption.

Retail and CPG clients continue to experience uncertainty due to the ongoing tariff negotiations and evolving geopolitical equations. Clients are prioritizing cost takeouts and AI-led productivity deals while discretionary spend remains soft apart from SAP, DNA testing and AI augmented services. We continue to leverage Topaz and our AI Next platform to deliver measurable business value with robust guardrails around privacy, governance and augmenting customer and employee experiences.

Telcos are prioritizing AI automation and transformation productivity increases, while traditionally IT remains under pressure. Clients are increasingly seeking partnerships with SIs for [indiscernible] scaling and innovation within complex ecosystem. Focus is on outcome-based engagement models rather than traditional effort-based pricing model. Our stellar execution in a seasonally weak quarter is a clear reflection of our ability to navigate the uncertain environment effectively. Strong year-to-date performance and robust deal wins have enabled us to revise our revenue guidance for FY '26 upward to 3% to 3.5%. This does not include any revenues from the joint venture with Telstra still await the regulatory approvals. Our operating margin guidance remains at 20% to 22%. With that, we can open up for the questions.

