InMode Ltd. (INMD) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 5, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Moshe Mizrahy - Co-Founder, CEO & Director
Yair Malca - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Miri Segal-Scharia - MS-IR LLC
Danielle Antalffy - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Matthew Miksic - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to InMode's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Miri Segal, CEO of MS IR. Please go ahead.

Miri Segal-Scharia
MS-IR LLC

Thank you, operator, and everyone, for joining us today. Before we begin, I would like to remind our listeners that certain information shared on this call may contain forward-looking statements and the safe harbor statement outlined in today's earnings release also pertains to this call.

If you have not received a copy of the release, please visit the Investor Relations section of the company's website. Changes in business, competitive, technological, regulatory and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed by the forward-looking statements made today.

Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of future performance. As such, we can give no assurance as to the accuracy of our forward-looking statements and assume no obligation to update them, except as required by law.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Moshe Mizrahy, InMode's CEO. Moshe, please go ahead.

Moshe Mizrahy
Co-Founder, CEO & Director

Thank you, Miri, and to everyone for joining us. With me today are Dr. Michael Kreindel, our Co-Founder and Chief Technology Officer; Yair Malca, our Chief Financial Officer; and Rafael Lickerman, our VP of Finance. Following our prepared remarks, we will all be available to answer your questions.

The third quarter progressed in line with our expectation, even as we navigated a complex economic environment. Our performance this quarter reflects the strength in our diversified portfolio and the disciplined execution of our strategy. We remain focused on expanding our presence in high-growth markets and position the company well into the future.

This quarter, we expanded our global footprint with opening a new subsidiary in Argentina, an important milestone, our regional growth strategy. Establishing a local presence in this key market will allow us to better serve customers through direct engagement and localized support.

We are now focused on obtaining final clinical clearances and expect to begin generating internal initial revenue by the end of 2025.

Following the earlier launch of our subsidiary in Thailand, we are actively building strong local team to drive sales, laying the groundwork for sustainable growth across both regions.

As we noted in our Q2 update, we conducted a soft launch of the men wellness platforms to introduce it to selected users and early adopters, so we can gather initial clinical feedback.

The full commercial rollout event took place during the third quarter and we expect the beginning of revenue contribution toward the end of the year.

Finally, I'm excited to share some important news about a key leadership addition to our team. We recently appointed Michael Dennison as our President of North America. Michael is an entrepreneur-driven and award-winning sales leader who has built an impressive career in the medical aesthetic device industry, holding nearly every sales role along the way with over close to decade at InMode.

Michael advanced from District Sales Manager to Vice President of Sales, helping to grow revenue nationally, expand market share and build a strong distribution network across North America.

Looking ahead, we recognize the challenges in the marketplace, but remain confident in our competitive advantages, including our strong financial position, diverse and innovative portfolio and trusted global brand. These strengths position us as the global leader in the minimally invasive aesthetic and wellness industry.

Now I would like to turn the call over to Yair, our Chief Financial Officer. Yair, please.

Yair Malca
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Moshe, and hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us. I would like to review our Q3 2025 financial results in more detail.

InMode generated revenues of $93.2 million. As a reminder, when comparing year-over-year results, last year's quarterly revenue of $130.2 million included $31.9 million in preorder sales.

Even with the traditional Q3 seasonality, consumables and service revenues were $19.9 million, up 26% year-over-year. This growth in consumables was driven primarily by markets outside of the U.S.

Our minimally invasive platforms accounted for 75% of total revenues this quarter. Sales outside of the U.S. increased slightly to $40 million or 43% of overall sales, a 10% increase year-over-year. The United States was the largest geographical revenue contributor, reaching $53.2 million.

GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins in Q3 were 78%, down from 82% reported in Q3 2024. As expected, our third quarter gross margins were lower due to the anticipated impact of tariffs, which we had incorporated into our outlook.

As part of our global expansion, we currently have 284 direct sales reps and distributors coverage in more than 73 countries. Sales and marketing expenses decreased to $44.9 million from $51.9 million in the same period last year. The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects the reduction in sales between the 2 periods.

GAAP operating expenses in the third quarter were $51.4 million, an 11% year-over-year decrease. On a non-GAAP basis, operating expenses were $49.1 million this quarter, down from $54.4 million, a 10% decrease year-over-year. GAAP operating margin was 22%, down from 37% in the third quarter of 2024.

On a non-GAAP basis, operating margin reached 25% compared to 40% last year. GAAP net income was $21.8 million, down from $50.9 million in the third quarter of 2024. On a non-GAAP basis, net income was $24.5 million, down from $54.9 million.

GAAP diluted earnings per share for the third quarter were $0.34, down from $0.65 in Q3 of 2024. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.38, down from $0.70 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2024. Share-based compensation declined to $2.7 million from $3.9 million in the third quarter of 2024.

We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet. As of September 30, 2025, the company had cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and deposits of $532.3 million. This quarter, InMode generated $24.5 million in cash from operating activities.

Before I turn the call back to Moshe, I would like to reiterate our guidance for 2025. Revenues to remain between $365 million to $375 million, non-GAAP gross margins to remain between 78% to 80%, non-GAAP income from operations to remain between $93 million and $98 million, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share to remain between $1.55 to $1.59.

I will now turn over the call back to Moshe.

Moshe Mizrahy
Co-Founder, CEO & Director

Thank you, Yair. Thank you very much. Operator, we are ready for the Q&A session. Please.