International Paper Company (IP) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 30, 2025 10:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Mandi Gilliland
Andrew Silvernail - CEO & Chairman
Lance Loeffler - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Mark Weintraub - Seaport Research Partners
Matthew McKellar - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
George Staphos - BofA Securities, Research Division
Michael Roxland - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Anthony Pettinari - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Philip Ng - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to International Paper's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mandi Gilliland, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Ma'am, the floor is yours.

Mandi Gilliland

Thank you, Christa. Good morning and good afternoon, and thank you for joining International Paper's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. Our speakers this morning are Andy Silvernail, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lance Loeffler, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

There is important information at the beginning of our presentation, including certain legal disclaimers. For example, during the call, we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward-looking statements can be found in our press releases and reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

We will also present certain non-U.S. GAAP financial information. A reconciliation of those figures to U.S. GAAP financial measures is available on our website.

Beginning this quarter, management has elected to present forward-looking guidance based on adjusted EBITDA rather than adjusted EBIT. This change reflects our view that adjusted EBITDA provides a better comparative metric to use during the company's transformation. Our website also contains copies of the third quarter earnings press release and today's presentation slides.

I will now turn the call over to Andy Silvernail.

Andrew Silvernail
CEO & Chairman

Thanks, Mandi. Good morning, and good afternoon, everyone. Let's begin on Slide 3. As we go through today's presentation, there are 3 key messages I want you to take away. First, we're making significant measurable progress on our transformation. Our strategy is getting traction. Second, macro conditions in North America and EMEA continue to be challenging. Third, we're focused on what we can control. We're moving aggressively on cost initiatives to enable margin expansion and continued investment in our success.

This quarter represents an important step on our transformational journey as we continue to execute the strategy we launched last year. We committed to an ambitious transformation plan to reinforce our leadership in sustainable packaging solutions through an advantaged cost position and High Rel Supply Position in most -- in our most strategically attractive markets and delivering an unmatched customer experience. Our strategy is rooted in 80/20, which has 4 elements: Simplify, Segment, Resource and Grow. In that spirit, over the course of this year, we have announced several targeted actions. We are simplifying our organization by exiting select businesses, markets and functions to sharpen our focus and liberate resources.

Post the GCF sale and the exit of some specialty businesses and low-margin export we will be exclusively a sustainable packaging business. This is a major milestone in our transformation. A key step of segmentation is the rollout of our lighthouse model, which has accelerated across the North American box system and continue to gain traction in our mill system, and we are now kicking this off in EMEA.

We are directing our resources, namely people and capital toward our most advantaged opportunities to drive higher reliability and productivity. For example, we made the decision to close Savannah. We redeployed approximately 30 people to Riverdale and avoided a $300 million capital call, which allowed us to fund our Riverdale conversion to lightweight containerboard. These actions contribute to a stronger business for our customers, employees and shareholders, which is reflected in our EBITDA improvement.

I'm now moving to Slide 4. We are well on our way in our transformation journey and are pulling multiple levers with many moving parts across North America and EMEA. Several drive immediate benefits, and you'll see those in our numbers now. Others are medium and long-term benefits that come with near-term financial offsets. Facility closures, overhead reduction and refocusing our commercial efforts will have multiple short-term puts and takes.

During this call, we want to ensure that we describe the key components of our transformation. The main takeaway is that our underlying earnings are growing significantly, and we are confident in our strategy to deliver profitable growth over the long term. It's important to recognize that North America and EMEA are at different stages of the transformation journey and operate in very different markets, which creates unique opportunities and challenges for each business.

In North America, we're seeing significant benefits of the actions taken to date despite short-term market offsets, giving us conviction that we're on the right path. In EMEA, we are early in the process of optimizing our footprint, reducing overhead costs and reinvesting in strategic priorities. Despite macro headwinds, we are making progress and have a clear path forward to drive improvements.

I'm on Slide 5. As we consider our journey and how much is left to accomplish, I want to anchor us in the progress we've made to date, utilizing North America as a transformation proof point. This slide shows how we can drive results in a tough market while investing to win. In North America, we have delivered a 40% increase in adjusted EBITDA year-to-date compared to the same period in 2024, while expanding adjusted EBITDA margin to 370 basis points by 370 basis points.

Our strong performance year-to-date has been the result of several costs and commercial drivers. In terms of cost improvement, we continued our footprint optimization in North America. We closed additional mills and box plants, sold or exited some of our nonstrategic export and specialty businesses, further simplified our overhead structure and rolled out our 80/20 Lighthouse model to 74 box plants to drive improved operational efficiency and service levels. We launched the Lighthouse implementation in our mill system in the third quarter.

Commercially, we continue to invest in our best-in-class experience for our customers. This has resulted in key strategic wins across national and local customers as we continue to benefit from strong margin improvement. In North America, we have pulled the levers of change aggressively. The tremendous effort and focus by our team is working. We will continue to build on our progress in North America while leveraging our 80/20 playbook in EMEA.

I'm now moving to Slide 6. Let me cover a few quarterly highlights. To begin, our Packaging Solutions businesses grew EBITDA sequentially 28%. These results underscore the progress we're making with our 80/20 implementation. As we move to demand, we came into the year, we anticipated U.S. box industry shipments would be up 1% to 1.5%.

However, we now expect industry shipments to be down approximately 1% to 1.5% for the full year due to factors like trade uncertainty, soft consumer sentiment and weak housing market. Similarly, in EMEA, our expectation coming into the year was for box volume to be in the 2% to 3% range. We're now seeing that closer to 1%.

While the markets are challenging, we are controlling our own destiny. We control our customer-centric approach, and that focus is working. In North America, in the month of September, marked an important milestone as we took market share and grew box shipments. That trend will continue in the fourth quarter and 2026.

Despite softer-than-expected market conditions, we have continued to build momentum on our transformation journey and are rapidly executing cost out measures that will yield additional benefits in 2026, which I'll talk about in detail later.

In addition to our mill closures and specialty business exits, we still expect to close the sale of GCF by year-end, pending regulatory approval. During the balance of our time today, we'll walk through our -- more details about our third quarter performance, our outlook for the fourth quarter, momentum into 2026 and updated targets for 2027.

Now moving to Slide 7. Looking at our overall company performance, excluding GCF, our third quarter results reflect solid progress and additional proof points along our transformation journey. Third quarter revenue was slightly higher sequentially, driven by continued strong price realization and stable volumes.

Importantly, we delivered our expectation of significant sequential EBITDA improvement in the quarter. As a result, our EBITDA improved by 28% and our margin expanded by approximately 300 basis points. Our adjusted EBIT and EPS results included the accelerated depreciation expense of $675 million related to our facility closures, which impacted EPS by $0.81.

Free cash flow in the quarter increased sequentially to $150 million, primarily driven by strong growth in operating cash flow despite approximately $60 million of direct cash costs related to our transformation. The strength of our balance sheet allows us to invest and position ourselves to drive sustainable, profitable growth.

I'm now on Slide 8. Sequentially, we saw a significant improvement in EBITDA this quarter of approximately $190 million for IP's continuing operations. For the GCF business included, we achieved more than $1 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, in line with our expectations. I'd like to take a moment now to acknowledge the entire GCF team for their contributions and their hard work demonstrated throughout this transition. We wish them continued success as they team up with American Industrial Partners.

Now I'll turn it over to Lance for a few additional details.

Lance Loeffler
Senior VP & CFO

Thanks, Andy. Still on Slide 8, let me touch on a few housekeeping items related to GCF. First, we've recast this year and the prior 2 years of financials to reflect GCF moving to discontinued operations. Second, we've identified approximately $60 million in annual stranded overhead costs, which we have reallocated to the corporate line throughout 2025. A significant portion of these costs will be covered by a transition service agreement following the close.

As the TSA winds down, any residual stranded costs will be eliminated. Third, with the signed transaction, we've written down the GCF business to fair market value and the associated impairment of approximately $1 billion is reflected in the discontinued operations line this quarter. Finally, upon closing, we intend to use the sale of these proceeds of GCF to reinvest in our Packaging Solutions businesses and pay down debt in order to sustain our target credit metrics and maintain a strong investment-grade rating.

Turning to Slide 9 and our Packaging Solutions North America third quarter results. As a reminder, we are using adjusted EBITDA for our bridges as a better comparative metric during the company's transformation. Looking at the data sequentially. Price and Mix in the third quarter was higher by $28 million, primarily due to strong price realization from prior price index movement. Volumes were relatively stable in the third quarter, and operations and costs were $49 million favorable, primarily driven by the non-repeat of second quarter items as we discussed on the last call and the impact of strategic cost-out initiatives.

Planned maintenance outages resulted in $86 million of lower costs in the third quarter. In order to accelerate our mill footprint actions, we adjusted our outage schedule accordingly. Going forward, we will continue to optimize planned outages to align with demand and balance our network.

Input costs were $27 million unfavorable for the quarter due to higher energy costs, including the incremental costs from the natural gas curtailment that continues at our Valeant mill. All of this leads to an adjusted EBITDA for North America of $655 million. Following the bridges, I'd like to note, our depreciation expense in the third quarter was $831 million, which includes the accelerated depreciation expense of $619 million associated with the closure of our Savannah, Riceboro and Red River mills.

Turning to Slide 10. Let me take a moment to put the trajectory of North American business into perspective. As mentioned on our last call, we finished the second quarter with a gap to industry around negative 4%, but expected to close our gap by the end of this year. Although industry numbers will often publish until tomorrow, we believe that we will be in line or above industry growth rates in the third quarter. Importantly, we exited the third quarter with volumes up 1% year-over-year in September, and we are seeing that trend reinforced in October. This gives us confidence in market share gains in the fourth quarter.

As you can see in 2024, our volume trajectory versus the industry was a direct result of strategic actions we took to renegotiate low-margin contracts. While this had a significant impact on our volumes, it allowed us to shed less desirable business and refocus our capacity and commercial efforts on higher value, more profitable businesses. You can see from the benefits of these changes starting to take effect in 2025, where we have closed the gap to market and expect to have above-market performance in the fourth quarter and 2026. The current trajectory is consistent with our expectations and further affirms our strategy is working.

Turning to Slide 11. Let me provide some detail on our fourth quarter Packaging Solutions North America outlook. Taking a look at volume, we expect industry demand to remain relatively stable in the fourth quarter. However, our outlook of an $82 million decline includes approximately $60 million of unfavorable commercial impact associated with the exiting of the 2 strategic -- nonstrategic export and specialty markets businesses.

In addition, there are 3 less shipping days sequentially, which we anticipate will be partially offset by the benefit of strategic customer wins and stronger seasonal volumes. We expect operations costs -- we expect operations and costs to be favorable by $44 million in the fourth quarter, primarily due to the $60 million of cost-out benefit from mill closures tied to the exit of the nonstrategic export and specialty markets. This benefit is partially offset by seasonally higher labor costs and reliability spend aligned with our planned outages.

So just to be clear, the $60 million benefit in ops and costs related to the mill closures in the quarter offsets the $60 million of negative commercial impact in volume. The fourth quarter will also include higher maintenance outages sequentially as planned. All in, our fourth quarter outlook for North America is approximately $600 million of EBITDA.

Now moving to Slide 12. As we look to the balance of 2025 for North America, we expect continued EBITDA improvement building on our strong first half momentum. Let me provide you with more details of our commercial and cost out improvement. This bridge reflects the expected benefits that we are realizing in the second half of 2025. From a commercial perspective, the benefit from the February price increase will continue to ramp throughout the year as we roll out our Lighthouse model more broadly, we expect more wins with strategic customers, both nationally and locally.

On the cost front, the EBITDA improvement throughout 2025 is primarily driven by corporate overhead structural changes and the closure of the Red River mill. These actions taken earlier in the year continue to flow through in the second half and into 2026. This quarter, we also announced the closure of Savannah and Riceboro mill. As I mentioned on the last slide, the reduction in fixed costs favorable to EBITDA is offset entirely by the commercial margin loss from exiting saturated kraft and low-margin export markets. Both of these mills had significant near-term capital requirements and did not return their cost of capital through the cycle. By taking these strategic actions, this capital will be redeployed for stronger returns within the business.

Andrew Silvernail
CEO & Chairman

Let me add some context here. In light of the more challenged demand environment, we are accelerating our cost-out actions. While these are difficult decisions, they are the right thing for the long-term success of the business. This has been an active quarter, and I want to speak to several decisions. In North America, Lance just walked you through the mill closures announced in August, which ceased operation last month. Earlier this month, we also agreed to sell our Bag business. And just last week, we executed the decision to outsource a large portion of our North American IT service and support functions, a strategic move toward better scalability, cost efficiency and positioning IT in our businesses to deliver operational and customer excellence.

We're grateful to all employees affected by these actions. Thank you for all of your contributions, and we wish you very well in the future.

Now let me hand it back to Lance to walk you through EMEA's third quarter results.

Lance Loeffler
Senior VP & CFO

Thanks, Andy. So now turning to Slide 13 in our Packaging Solutions, EMEA third quarter results. While we continue to see soft demand in EMEA, our business grew EBITDA and expanded margins sequentially. While Price and Mix contributed $13 million of improvement in the third quarter, this was below our expectations, primarily due to a recent downward price index movement. Volume was also lower than expected in the third quarter, which we believe resulted from overall market softness and destocking in anticipation of paper price declines.

Operations and costs were unfavorable by $10 million, primarily due to the pricing impact on the value of our inventory. As a result of the paper price decline, we experienced lower fiber costs of $19 million in the third quarter, all of which resulted in third quarter adjusted EBITDA for EMEA of $209 million.

Turning to Slide 14. I'd like to discuss our fourth quarter outlook for Packaging Solutions EMEA. Price and Mix are expected to improve by $12 million next quarter, primarily driven by continued box price realization due to the flow-through and timing of prior price index movement.

Turning to volume. We expect an increase of $12 million in the fourth quarter based on improved seasonality heading into the holidays and the start of the citrus fruit season in Morocco. In addition, we expect operations and costs to be $24 million unfavorable, primarily due to increased costs related to the seasonally higher volume. Finally, we expect favorable fiber costs to provide a $16 million benefit in the fourth quarter. All in, our fourth quarter EBITDA outlook for EMEA is approximately $230 million.

As I turn to Slide 15, and we discussed in North America, we are showing a bridge for EMEA similarly that reflects the 80/20 progress and the anticipated EBITDA benefits we expect to realize in the second half of this year. For our commercial initiatives building towards our '25 EBITDA targets, we previously identified uplift from prior price index moves.

Since then, the European market has been challenged by demand softness and there have been several price index decreases offsetting that original gain. Our current view includes known adjustments to the paper price index. As a result of the challenged macro environment in EMEA, we are taking action to accelerate our cost-out initiatives. This quarter, we've proposed several closures across East Europe, the Nordics and Italy, which are all subject to consultation.

Last quarter, we announced a proposal to delayer and remove the regional overhead structure in Europe as well as consolidate from 13 to 7 subregions. Consultation on this reorganization is progressing with an anticipated financial benefit occurring in 2026. Finally, we are launching our Lighthouse pilots in Spain and the U.K. similar to the model we rolled out in the U.S. with plans to expand across EMEA next year. I would also note that the input cost and other [ VAR ] includes the additional month of DS Smith, and favorable energy costs offset by inflation. Obviously, EMEA is not in the position we expected this year.

While we have significantly improved our strategic positioning and competitive strength, market softness and negative price movements have made the start to the DS Smith acquisition challenging. That said, we have an aggressive road map to improve profitability, invest in our strategic pillars and position the business for long-term success.

Now let me turn it back over to Andy.

Andrew Silvernail
CEO & Chairman

Thanks, Lance. I'm on Slide 16. As we look ahead to 2026, we'll provide full year guidance on our next call at the end of January. The numbers on this slide show a clear line of sight to the additional benefit of actions we have announced in 2025, which equates to $600 million of incremental adjusted EBITDA in 2026. The majority of the benefits already execute come from cost actions.

We will see the impact from our footprint optimization, distribution, overhead and sourcing initiatives as we realize the full benefit of our 2025 actions with approximately $500 million of cost carryover into 2026.

We will also see incremental margin gains from known strategic commercial wins in North America and EMEA, partially offset by exiting the nonstrategic businesses related to Savannah and Riceboro closures.

We have not included in this analysis, additional upside potential for market growth, price and future cost actions including productivity as we drive improvements in our North American mill system. Collectively, the actions we have already executed and actions we will take going forward are foundational to our controlling and shaping our future performance in a dynamic market environment.

I'm on Slide 17. As we finalize 2025, I want to share with you our updated transformation targets. There are a few key points. First, our execution is on track. We have taken decisive action in North America, and we are accelerating our execution in EMEA. Second, market headwinds throughout 2025 will likely persist into 2026. The soft market has cost more than $500 million in profit this year alone. Importantly, the profit opportunity remains. It is simply going to take a year longer to achieve. We expect to capture the full opportunity by 2028.

Third, due to the impact of the market softness, we are adjusting our targets for 2025 and 2027 compared to what we outlined at our Investor Day in March. Again, we'll offer full guidance for 2026 in January.

With the market softness continuing in North America and EMEA, our revised full year 2025 targets or $24 billion of net sales, adjusted EBITDA of $3 billion and free cash flow of negative $100 million to $300 million. Our long-term ambitions remain. IP has the ability to deliver on the targets we laid out at Investor Day in the medium term. However, the softer market this year and into 2026 has delayed our progress.

We can deliver $5 billion in EBITDA in 2027 and continue to accelerate our progress thereafter. With our improving performance, cash on hand and strong balance sheet, we will continue to invest aggressively in our transformation. I'm excited for the future as we retool International Paper through 80/20 and our strategic pillars. The team is doing yeoman's work across the company. We are committed to delivering our transformation plan.

Before we move to Q&A, I'd like to thank our IP team. Our people are working tirelessly to win. Together, we are an important journey to realize our potential as the market leader, employer of choice and value creator for customers and shareholders. Now operator, let's open it up to questions.