International Paper Company (IP) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Mandi Gilliland - Senior Director of Investor Relations
Andrew Silvernail - CEO & Chairman
Timothy Nicholls - Executive VP & President of DS Smith
Lance Loeffler - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

George Staphos - BofA Securities, Research Division
Mark Weintraub - Seaport Research Partners
Charlie Muir-Sands - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Philip Ng - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Michael Roxland - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Anojja Shah - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Detlef Winckelmann - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Matthew McKellar - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to International Paper's Fourth Quarter 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mandi Gilliland, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Ma'am, the floor is yours.

Mandi Gilliland
Senior Director of Investor Relations

Good morning and good afternoon, and thank you for joining International Paper's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. Our speakers this morning are Andy Silvernail, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Lance Loeffler, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Tim Nicholls, Executive Vice President and President of DS Smith.

There is important information at the beginning of our presentation, including certain legal disclaimers. For example, during the call, we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward-looking statements can be found in our press releases and reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

We will also present certain non-U.S. GAAP financial information. A reconciliation of those figures to U.S. GAAP financial measures is available on our website. Our website also contains copies of the fourth quarter earnings press release and today's presentation slides.

Beginning on Slide 3. Before we jump into the presentation, I want to provide clarity on what will be discussed on the call today. We will begin by walking through the separation announcement for the EMEA packaging business. Then we will discuss our 2025 full year and fourth quarter results, followed by our outlook for Packaging Solutions North America and Packaging Solutions EMEA. We will close out the call with Q&A.

So now let me turn the call over to Andy Silvernail, who will start on Slide 4.

Andrew Silvernail
CEO & Chairman

Thanks, Mandi. Good morning, and good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for joining us to discuss the next steps in our transformation journey. Today, I'm excited to announce our plan to create two publicly traded scaled regional packaging solution leaders in North America and EMEA. I recognize that this action, understandably, is a surprise to most of you. But during this call, I'll walk you through why this is the right step to accelerate value creation for both businesses.

My objective today is to answer a few critical questions, what, why and why now? We look forward to helping you understand how this swift, decisive action is a continuation of our 80/20 focused strategy and accelerate toward our ambitions and supports our ultimate objective, which, as always, is to maximize long-term value for our shareholders.

But first, turning to Slide 5. I want to anchor you in our core strategy and how we operationalize it to our 80/20 performance system. While our portfolio is changing, the core strategic principles and the operating model are not. 80/20 is the driver for our transformation. The lens we use to determine where to play and how to win and it guides us on how we operate each day. The 4 elements of 80/20 are Simplify, Segment, Resource and Grow and they ensure that resources are focused on the highest value areas across geographies, customers and products. The 80/20 methodology is also how we drive sustainable value creation through our virtuous cycle as we build an advantaged cost position and a high relative supply position, all delivered for world-class customer experience.

I'm now on Slide 6. The acquisition of DS Smith strengthened our regional footprint and positions both businesses in North America and EMEA to advance our virtuous cycle. Through the application of 80/20, we have made significant progress on building [ an enhanced ] cost position, executing $710 million of cost-out actions through 2025 on a full run rate basis, which includes synergy benefits that will be realized in 2026 and 2027. This was achieved through actions such as optimizing our footprint in North America, streamlining and reducing structural organizational layers in EMEA and exiting lower-margin segments.

The combination also advanced our competitive positioning. Our voice of the customer surveys show that we have achieved the highest customer satisfaction among direct competitors in North America and leading scores and customer experience relative to the other top players in EMEA. The improved positioning and bolstered operational capabilities will provide ongoing benefits for each independent region going forward.

Moving to Slide 7. So why separate and why now? The combination of IP and DS Smith enabled important steps forward in terms of cost and relative supply positions and enable superior customer experience as demonstrated by a high and increasing in-region Net Promoter Scores. Since the combination, our teams have made tremendous progress rapidly integrating the businesses within each region and implementing our 80/20 road map. I'm proud of how our teams have embraced the challenge. And because of these efforts, it has become clear that each business is at a positive inflection point.

By acting now, we can more fully enable the full potential of each business. Taking this action will allow both businesses to accelerate progress toward maximizing long-term profitable growth through greater speed, agility and differentiation as well as enhanced focus on their different regions and targeted investment approaches. Creating and inventing companies will further enable the businesses to win in distinctive competitive markets through focused leadership, tailored commercial strategies, independent balance sheets and flexible capital allocation aligned to attractive but different in-region opportunities. The separation will also give each business the ability to customize their messaging for regional customers without diluting the message for global audience which is a very small portion of the customer opportunity.

I'm now on Slide 8. Overall, we are playing in the two most attractive global profit pools with significant and increasing demand. After the combination of IP and DS Smith, the regional integration of the legacy positions of both businesses, each of the regional businesses is better equipped to compete and win in their respective geographies. However, there are key structural differences in the competitive and commercial landscape that will require tailored commercial and capital allocation strategies going forward.

North America is more integrated and resilient in terms of supply positions and buyers has a high degree of supply integration and steady demand growth. EMEA has more localized dynamics at the country level and relatively higher demand growth. Customers in EMEA value different products and supplier traits as well with greater emphasis on sustainability. Consequently, it's important that each business unit tailors strategy to best meet the distinct customer expectations in their markets. Creating two separate businesses will enable each region to accelerate its path to long-term profitable growth.

I'm now on Slide 9. I want to address what is changing and what is not. As we discussed, our 80/20 methodology starts with Simplify, which we have been working towards over the past year, deemphasizing or exiting select businesses, markets and functions and then redirecting our resources to a sharper focus and higher value. The action we are discussing today is the next step in the 80/20 performance system, segmenting the business to further optimize resource allocation and enable long-term profitable growth.

While these actions separates the businesses from one entity into two discrete, highly focused companies, both businesses will continue to emphasize the powerful operating discipline of 80/20 and our three strategic pillars. Our 80/20 approach with a clear focus on cost optimization and operating efficiency, strategy execution and customer centricity will remain core to both businesses.

The independent scaled businesses will benefit from true alignment to the characteristics of their district customers and regions. Local leadership and optimized capital allocation strategies without regional trade-offs. Most importantly, both companies will continue to be customer-driven organizations focused on delivering exceptional customer service with attention to detail around on-time delivery, quality and engagement.

Turning to Slide 10. Let me provide an overview of what the post-separation International Paper will look like. IP will be the leading scaled sustainable packaging solutions provider in North America, relentlessly focused on customers with an advantaged cost position and leading innovation capabilities. The business will be comprised of the current packaging solutions in North America, including both legacy IP and DS Smith assets. As you can see from the pro forma results on the slide, the business that will become stand-alone IP had full year 2025 net sales of more than $15 billion and approximately $2.3 billion of adjusted EBITDA that is poised to accelerate rapidly over the next 24 months.

The sharper regional focus will enable IP to further accelerate value creation for our shareholders. We have already made significant progress executing our transformation strategy and expect the benefits to flow through adjusted EBITDA over the coming year. We'll provide more detail about that in the earnings portion of the presentation. Additionally, we expect that the acceleration of our transformation to result in expanded margins, growing free cash flow, which will support disciplined investments in organic and inorganic growth opportunities.

We have a robust plan in place to continue delivering our strategic ambitions, which you can see on Slide 11. This is a continuation of our 80/20 approach in our virtuous cycle. We will continue to assess our mill and plant footprint and transform day-to-day operations, deliver differentiated customer service and develop and deploy local commercial strategies. These actions will enable strategic reinvestment in the business to accelerate organic growth, drive productivity and support disciplined bolt-on acquisitions. This will all be supported by a strong investment-grade balance sheet and a capital structure that supports an attractive dividend.

Our ultimate goal will continue to be to provide customers with the best possible solutions and creating value for our shareholders as a preeminent packaging company in North America. I'll now turn the call over to Tim to talk about the post separation of EMEA Packaging business.

Timothy Nicholls
Executive VP & President of DS Smith

Thanks, Andy. I'm on Slide 12. I'm excited to talk to you about the post-separation EMEA Packaging business, which will continue to be a leading provider of innovative, sustainable packaging solutions across Europe.

The new independent company will be defined by its strong customer relationships, high-performance operations and best-in-class innovative solutions that help our customers meet their sustainability goals. The business will be comprised of IP's current Packaging Solutions EMEA business, including the combination of legacy DS Smith and IP assets. As you can see from the pro forma results on this slide, the business will become the stand-alone EMEA business at full year 2025 net sales of approximately $8.5 billion and approximately $800 million of adjusted EBITDA.

Over the past year, we have created and begun to implement an 80/20 road map based on the proven 80/20 performance system. We are still at an early stage of the transformation to optimize our footprint, structurally reduce cost and extend our innovation leadership, but we expect to begin seeing the benefits of these actions in 2026. The separation will enable us to accelerate this progress, enhancing the new company's ability to make both organic and inorganic investments into our business to further improve our cost position and enhance customer experience and relative supply position. You can see the priorities for the post-separation EMEA Packaging business on Slide 13.

A key area of focus is to continue using our 80/20 approach to complete the integration of legacy acquisitions made by DS Smith prior to the combination with IP, transforming our footprint and aligning resources to drive value. We will remain laser focused on our customer-centric mindset, rigorously aligning our resources and investments with the needs of our key customers.

As we execute our strategy and 80/20 road map, we'll be focused on delivering organic growth and structural cost reductions in order to expand margins and drive strong cash flow and returns. We expect the post-separation EMEA packaging business to have a strong investment-grade balance sheet and a dividend policy that is supported by strong operational profit and high return organic and inorganic investments. Our goal is to meet our customers' needs with the best possible packaging solutions and to create value for our shareholders by delivering operating performance at the top of our peer group. Our transformation will continue in 2026, and we believe that by the time the separation is complete, we will be making significant progress against our financial targets and toward more definitive market leadership and sustainable packaging solutions.

I'll now turn the call over to Lance, who will go over the details of the transaction.

Lance Loeffler
Senior VP & CFO

Thanks, Tim. Moving to Slide 14, let me walk you through some of the specifics of the separation. First, we expect the transaction to be structured as a spin-off of the EMEA packaging business to shareholders with International Paper retaining a meaningful ownership stake in the new company. Second, whether the transaction will be tax-free to U.S. shareholders will depend on the ultimate terms of the transaction, the percentage of ownership retained and other factors. Third, we expect the separation to be completed within the next 12 to 15 months subject to satisfaction of certain customary conditions and regulatory approvals, with plans for the company to be listed on both the London and New York Stock Exchanges.

As part of the management plan, Andy, Tom Hammock and I will continue in our respective roles in International Paper. Following the separation, Tim will serve as the CEO of the publicly traded EMEA Packaging business. As many of you know, Tim previously served as CFO of International Paper and has been leading the EMEA Packaging business during the past year, overseeing EMEA's 80/20 implementation and strategic transformation. The International Paper board has confidence that he is the right person to continue leading EMEA's transformation.

Also, David Robbie is expected to be appointed as Chairman of the Board. David has a wealth of experience having served on the former DS Smith Board as Senior Independent Director until joining the International Paper board in 2025.

In order to position the EMEA packaging business for success following the separation, we plan to invest approximately $400 million in EMEA throughout the course of 2026 and to fund the ongoing transformation of the business and 80/20 implementation. As mentioned earlier, we intend to create strong investment-grade balance sheets for both businesses and we'll continue to provide updates and additional information on our progress as the details of the separation materialize.

I'll now turn the call over to Andy to discuss our full year results and fourth quarter performance. Andy?

Andrew Silvernail
CEO & Chairman

Shifting now to our full year and quarterly earnings update on Page 15. In North America, we made significant progress on implementing our 80/20 plan and executing our strategy this year, achieving approximately 37% year-over-year adjusted EBITDA growth in 2025. And we expect our volume growth to outpace the underlying market by 3 to 4 percentage points in the fourth quarter which is well ahead of where we thought we'd be earlier last year. Throughout the year, we continue to advance our cost improvement strategy, delivering approximately $510 million of run rate cost benefits. The ongoing transformation resulted in approximately $110 million related to footprint optimization in 2025, and we expect to have similar amounts in 2026. We'll share more detail on these dynamics for North America in a moment.

In EMEA, we're moving decisively on transformation of the packaging business. We have actioned 20 site closures impacting approximately 1,400 roles with another 7 sites and 700 roles in work council discussions. We have a clear road map for applying our commercial and structural cost levers and expect to see the benefits of our cost and commercial actions accelerate through 2026.

Turning to our enterprise results for full year 2025, which reflect the steadfast commitment of the entire IP team to execute our transformation plan, continue to deliver best-in-class customer experience and create value for shareholders. We continue to drive strong growth from integration in 80/20 in a year of significant transformation. We expanded adjusted EBITDA margin by 230 basis points. Our adjusted EBIT and EPS were impacted by $958 million of accelerated depreciation by our footprint optimization and higher levels of depreciation and amortization related to the DS Smith acquisition. As anticipated, our investment in the transformation resulted in negative free cash flow of $159 million. As a reminder, I would note that the enterprise earnings numbers have been restated to exclude GCF, and we are pleased that we closed the transaction at the end of last week.

Now I'll turn it over to Lance to take you through the drivers of North America performance, including what drove the year-over-year improvements and what to expect in 2026.

Lance Loeffler
Senior VP & CFO

Thanks, Andy. I'm on Slide 17. I'd like to begin by reiterating the progress and momentum we've built in North America. Our teams delivered meaningful improvement across the business in a challenging environment, and the results reinforce our strategy is working. Notably, we have gained commercial momentum through focused service and reliability efforts, increasing on-time delivery percentage to the upper 90s, which has allowed us to win the trust of both new and existing customers. Also, our investments in our commercial team, adding new sales reps and upskilling the existing team has supported customer excellence across our national and local accounts, evidenced by our above-market volume growth in the second half of 2025 as well as strong price realization.

We continue to optimize our box footprint while rolling out our Lighthouse model to shift decision-making and strategy closer to our customers. We've now installed this in 85% of our box plant system.

Our mill investments are paying off, and we're beginning to see reliability improvements as we've expanded our lighthouse learnings to all our mills this year. The combination of our 37% year-over-year EBITDA improvement and 340 basis point margin expansion gives us confidence in our road map and our ability to achieve results in North America.

Moving to Slide 18. As a reminder, we are using adjusted EBITDA for our bridges as a better comparative metric during the company's transformation. Now let me walk you through the sequential variance for the fourth quarter.

Volume was $87 million unfavorable, largely in line with our expectations due to an almost $60 million impact as a result of exiting the nonstrategic export business as well as the impact of three fewer shipping days in the quarter, which was partially offset by continued momentum in onboarding our strategic customer wins.

Operations and costs were $3 million favorable. The cost-out benefit from the mill closures was offset by timing of spending across the business, including transitory costs as we optimize our network in line with our new footprint as well as higher seasonal labor costs.

Maintenance and outages were $41 million unfavorable as we continue to invest in the reliability and quality of our mill system. And input costs were $24 million favorable for the quarter primarily due to minimizing the impact from the natural gas curtailment at our Valeant mill early in the quarter, which has now been resolved. All of this leads to an adjusted EBITDA for North America of $560 million for the fourth quarter of 2025.

Turning to Slide 19 and looking ahead to 2026, our EBITDA growth will be primarily driven by approximately $100 million of commercial benefits as well as $500 million of cost benefits. Key drivers to this include strategic customer wins in the commercial front as well as cost out benefits across footprint optimization, productivity, supply chain, sourcing and overhead. Those benefits will be offset by approximately $200 million of nonrecurring transformation costs related to our ongoing investments in reliability and capacity, primarily driven by the Riverdale mill conversion in the first half of 2026. These investments are critical to support our profitable growth ambitions and bolster our lightweight capabilities to meet customer demand. This year, we also expect inflation to rise by approximately $200 million, while we continue to optimize our sourcing and procurement to minimize the impacts.

The takeaway here is that we remain confident in our trajectory to deliver on our 2026 targets of $2.5 billion to $2.6 billion with the assumption that the industry growth is flat to up 1% and we outperformed the industry by approximately 2%. Our 2026 target does not include the impact of any future pricing realization as we do not forecast price until it publishes. However, we would expect to see an incremental adjusted EBITDA impact of approximately $90 million for every $10 per ton price move on an annualized basis.

Now moving to Slide 20. We wanted to provide additional visibility into how we anticipate this year playing out with our planned transformation investments. There are a few factors driving the shape of 2026 that we wanted to be very clear about. In the first half of the year, we expect to see typical seasonality and one fewer shipping day. However, the main driver of our anticipated year-over-year decline comes from our planned investments in reliability, capacity and capabilities. This manifests itself in higher maintenance outages and costs related to our Riverdale mill conversion. All together, these represent approximately $165 million of nonrecurring timing impacts that will unwind in the second half. Normalized for these onetime impacts, we remain on a strong growth trajectory with approximately 10% first half year-over-year EBITDA growth.

In the second half, we expect our performance to materially accelerate, driven largely by nonrepeating items from the first half and realizing the additional momentum from our 2025 transformation activities. To add some more color on the sequential jump, approximately $200 million will come from returning to a normalized outage schedule, approximately $80 million associated with Riverdale nonrepeating items and margin benefits and a $75 million benefit from second half volume seasonality.

The remaining $200 million in our plan will be achieved through commercial and operational productivity actions as a part of our 80/20 transformation. The main drivers here are from continued footprint optimization, mill and box productivity improvements from rolling out the Lighthouse model as well as supply chain efficiencies, procurement initiatives and the winding down of ongoing mill costs. Our team remains laser-focused on executing against this plan, and we have high confidence in our ability to deliver.

Moving to the first quarter Packaging Solutions North America outlook on Slide 21. Price and mix are expected to improve by $51 million primarily due to seasonal mix improvement following a heavy e-commerce fourth quarter as well as favorable mix related to our smaller but more strategic export customers. We believe volume to be unfavorable by $68 million. The sequential seasonal decrease as well as the exit of nonstrategic markets more than offset the increased volume from our strategic wins and one additional shipping day. All in, our first quarter 2026 outlook for North America is approximately $534 million of adjusted EBITDA.

One more note before we move on. The first quarter outlook I just shared does not include any impact from the winter storm that moved across the United States Southeast this past week. We are currently assessing the impact and at this point, we're estimating that the total impact could be in the range of $20 million to $25 million for the first quarter. That wraps up our review of North America performance and outlook. And with that, let's move on to EMEA.

Turning to Packaging Solutions EMEA on Slide 22. We delivered a solid fourth quarter with sequential EBITDA growth of $19 million. The improvement was primarily driven by favorable pricing on key inputs, including fiber and natural gas, along with benefits for some of our early 80/20 cost actions. From a demand standpoint, the market remains soft, but broadly stable with continued pressure on board pricing. Overall, while we are still in the early stage of our transformation in EMEA, we are starting to see the benefits of our strategy materialize and are very confident of the path ahead.

Now on Slide 23 and looking at a full year 2026. Our adjusted EBITDA growth in EMEA will be driven by $200 million of commercial benefits, primarily driven by above industry growth with continued momentum of flow-through already captured from 2025 growth with our strategic customers. In addition, we expect approximately $200 million of cost-out benefits, primarily driven by footprint and head count optimization as well as cost improvements across procurement, distribution and our mill and box systems. We expect these benefits to be offset by approximately $100 million of inflation impact. Overall, we continue to build momentum on our transformation, and we'll continue to act decisively to optimize our footprint and operations while strategically investing in reliability and quality to best serve our EMEA customer base.

Moving to Slide 24. I want to take a moment to share additional detail on recent actions we've taken to improve our cost position and focus resources on the most attractive markets. In 2025, we actioned closures across 20 sites reducing head count by more than 1,400 positions. While we are engaged in ongoing consultation on our additional 7 sites and more than 700 roles, we expect this to deliver run rate cost savings of more than $160 million. At the same time, it's important to recognize these actions affect people and their families. We do not make these decisions lightly, and I want to thank the employees across these facilities and offices for their professionalism, dedication and contributions to the company.

Turning to Slide 25 and our outlook for the first quarter. We expect EBITDA to be roughly in line with the fourth quarter. We anticipate price and volume tailwinds of approximately $33 million driven by favorable mix and continued benefits from our strategic wins in 2025. Option costs are higher by $42 million, primarily driven by the timing of energy subsidies typically received in the second half of the year as well as costs related to accounting policy changes. We continue to build momentum with our strategic actions while managing through ongoing market volatility and focusing on those things that we can control as we execute our plan.

Now let me turn it back over to Andy, who will close it out with some key takeaways from today. Andy?

Andrew Silvernail
CEO & Chairman

Thank you, Lance. Turning to Slide 26 and our full year 2026 targets. We are confident in our trajectory, our plan for the coming year and our ability to execute against our targets for 2026. We're projecting enterprise net sales of $24.1 billion to $24.9 billion with adjusted EBITDA of $3.5 billion to $3.7 billion and free cash flow of $300 million to $500 million. As for the first quarter, including corporate, we're guiding to $740 million to $760 million of adjusted EBITDA. Importantly, as Lance mentioned earlier, our guidance does not include the impact of price actions. The enhanced positioning and greater efficiency that we've realized through our strategic actions in 80/20 implementation have us well positioned for 2026, and we expect that we will begin to see that flow through in the coming year.

As we discussed today, we are taking swift and decisive action to create long-term value for our shareholders. The combination of IP and DS Smith created two regional powerhouses that are leading providers of sustainable packaging solutions with significant scale and strong customer relationships. Our 80/20 actions over the past year have reduced complexity in each region. And the next step to continue the transformation is to segment the businesses so they can realize their full potential. Separating the businesses will provide each with the ability to best align capital and resources to distinct regional opportunities, market environments and customer needs. Each business will have the necessary ingredients, including strong investment-grade balance sheets to execute its 80/20 plan and the virtuous strategic cycle in the most effective way possible. We believe this is the most certain path to deliver our 2027 target of $5 billion of EBITDA and enable each business to achieve best-in-class performance and best-in-class valuation as we create long-term value for our shareholders.

At this time, let's open up the line to questions.

