iQIYI, Inc. (IQ) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 18, 2025 6:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Chang Yu - IR Director
Tim Yu - Founder, CEO & Director
Jun Wang - Chief Financial Officer
Xiaohui Wang - Chief Content Officer
Youqiao Duan - Senior Vice President of Intelligent Device Business
Xianghua Yang - Senior VP and President of Membership & Overseas Business Group

Conference Call Participants

Xueqing Zhang - China International Capital Corporation Limited, Research Division
Yi Jing Wei - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Felix Liu - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the iQIYI's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Ms. Chang Yu. Please go ahead.

Chang Yu
IR Director

Thank you, operator. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining iQIYI's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call.

The company's results were released earlier today and are available on the company's Investor Relations website at ir.iquiyi.com. On the call today are Mr. Yu Gong, our Founder, Director and CEO; Mr. Jun Wang, our CFO; Mr. Xiaohui Wang, our CCO, Chief Content Officer; Mr. Youqiao Duan, Senior Vice President of our Membership business; and Mr. Xianghua Yang, Senior Vice President of Movies and Overseas business; and Mr. Gang Wu, Senior Vice President of Brand Advertising business.

Mr. Gong will give a brief overview of the company's business operations and highlights, followed by Jun, who will go through the financials. After the prepared remarks, the management team will participate in the Q&A session.

Before we proceed, please note that the discussion today will contain forward-looking statements made under the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those outlined in our public filings with the SEC. iQIYI does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required under applicable law.

I will now pass on to Mr. Gong. Please go ahead.

Tim Yu
Founder, CEO & Director

Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. This summer, we captured the hearts of audiences with our original blockbuster drama, This Thriving Land. As we begin today's earnings call, I would like to share the journey of bringing the compelling story tonight. This Thriving Land became a highlight of iQIYI highly acclaimed masterpiece [indiscernible], [Foreign Language], a collection renowned for its expertly craft adaptation of famous novels. This Thriving Land tells a compelling tales of 3 families across 2 generations in rural China in the 1920s. When production began in Shandong last September, we heard questions and concerns. Can today's audience be drawn to a story that's 100 years ago?

However, we built these projects with strong confidence backed by our years of experience in adopting literature to hit dramas, A Lifelong Journey, [indiscernible] To the Wonder, [ The Knockout ] and the Northward. I think or believe that great stories resounded universally. They transcend time, culture and age, forging deep connections with viewers across regions and demographics. This ability to tell timeline stories is what set long-form content apart from faster-paced bite-sized entertainment.

As we all know, This Thriving Land became a major hit, exceeding the 10,000 mark on iQIYI popularity index score and topping this year Enlightent data chart for peak daily market share as influence expanded far beyond our platform, making meaningful impact on traditional TV and offline as well. It achieved the highest average rating per episode on CCTV's drama channel and boosted tourism in its filming location, anchoring the offline success of the [indiscernible]. The success of The Thriving Land is a no cause incidents. It's built on iQIYI-proven content methodology to create and amplify IP value through high-quality storytelling and advanced production technology to connect with broad and diverse audiences and to develop our business model with IP at the core.

From online to offline from domestic markets to global audiences, our business model continues to evolve and scale. Today, our online operations are well-established, global expansion is accelerating and our experienced business is advancing accordingly. On top of that, we are embracing exciting opportunities enabled by a supportive regulatory environment and advancements in AI. These new regulatory policies lay a solid foundation for innovation and growth in the long-form video industry. And at the same time, we leverage AI to transform how content is created and consumed.

In July, we partnered with Google and ByteDance and launched a global AI short film competition and as discovering and nurturing talents, who create short videos using AI technologies. We also collaborated with academic award winning, cinematographer Mr. Peter Pau, on a co-branded AI Theater, featuring AI-driven content. We aim to leverage iQIYI's professional production expertise to cultivate the next generation of creators, pioneer innovative AI-driven content production methods and deliver compelling AI-powered storytelling that resonates with audiences.

Now let's dive into the details of our business performance in Q3. Starting with content, which is the cornerstone of our business. Our goal is to engage audiences with deliver a diverse beloved content that drives commercial success. For long-form dramas, we focus on top-notch stories with high commercial value. In the third quarter, we once again secured the top position in total viewership market share according to Enlightent data. Our diverse high-quality lineup included the nationwide hit This Thriving Land and our in-house custom detective series, Coroner's Diary, which emerged as summer's dark horse with an iQIYI popularity index score exceeding 10,000. Additionally, the science fiction series, Mobius, earned strong acclaim for its innovative story telling reaching our peak popularity score of over 8,800.

Moving to movies. We achieved major breakthroughs in original article releases, The Shadow's Edge grossed over RMB 1.2 billion leading the summer box office and making a historic achievement for us. On our online movie platform, we retained the top viewership market share for 15 consecutive quarters driven by the diverse slate of 12 key titles.

In Q2, we launched an innovative revenue sharing model to maximize returns for fields with limited box office opportunities. This strategy is gaining traction in Q3 with new titles like A Cool Fish 2, [Foreign Language] generating over RMB 17 million in revenue sharing model in 2 months. For variety shows, our focus on top-tier titles delivered strong results in both popularity and revenue. The King of Stand-Up Comedy Season 2, [Foreign Language] on flagship IP generated impressive membership and advertising revenues. It achieved an iQIYI popularity index of over 8,000 and dominated the genres with leading market share according to Enlightent data.

Additionally, our newly launched observation show Her Prime [Foreign Language] had widespread discussions to deepen audience engagement and elevate our variety show IP value. We introduced consumer products like collectible cards and co-branded merchandise collections, resulting in a stronger audience loyalty.

Turning to micro dramas, they continue to enhance our content ecosystem, achieving double-digit sequential rate growth in average daily viewing time and daily subscription revenue in the third quarter. Our micro dramas also have attractive sponsorship from brand advertisers with more partners and with more partnership anticipated in the future. This growth has been driven by our focus on premium content, enhanced original production capabilities and an expanded library of free titles.

Our micro drama content library includes over 20,000 titles with over half available for free. We have also established our strong capabilities for consistently releasing original micro dramas such as Fate of Three Lives, Yuanshi Fenshen, Nurturing the Night, Free Heart Yo! and Ephemeral Paradise [Foreign Language] resonates strongly with audiences. Additionally, we introduced a dedicated micro animation channel, Manju, and kick off for original production. Micro animation is an innovative format of short-form animation that has experienced rapid growth in the past year following the success of micro drama and heavily leveraging AI technology.

For animations, we continue to improve our original production capabilities. In the third quarter, Over the Divine Realms, [Foreign Language], continued to enjoy strong viewership. Additionally, our highly regarded original production [indiscernible] returned with a second season captivating loyal audience and driving high engagement.

Next, let me show our effective slate of content for the first quarter. The diverse content pipeline includes Fated Hearts, [Foreign Language], Sword and Beloved, [Foreign Language], Silent Honor, [Foreign Language], [indiscernible], Strange Tales of Tang Dynasty III: To Chang'an [Foreign Language], Legend of the Magnate, [Foreign Language], [indiscernible].

The movie pipeline includes our original theatrical film ,The Skin, [Foreign Language], for theatrical release and our original theatrical hit The Shadow's Edge for online streaming. The first batch of original internet film and the emerging film projects [Foreign Language] and the licensed films such as [indiscernible] [Foreign Language].

The original variety show includes flagship Blooming Journey 2, [Foreign Language], Hi!, Young Farmers, [Foreign Language] and the brand new IP, Wonder Gala, [Foreign Language].

The micro drama pipeline includes the first micro drama based on the highly popular IP, The Strange Tales of Tang Dynasty, [Foreign Language], [indiscernible], [Foreign Language], For Seeing You in My Final Days, [Foreign Language].

The animation and children content includes new animation, Ascendants of the Nine Suns, [Foreign Language], returning soon, Dance Club Season 4, [Foreign Language], and then new IP, Payment Food Truck, [Foreign Language].

Moving on to membership services. We aim to build a household name membership brand, with brand market appeal backed by our vibrant content ecosystem and exceptional services. Membership service revenue recorded sequential growth in Q3 driven mainly by original hit dramas like This Thriving Land and Coroner's Diary as well as [indiscernible]. Beyond content, we are increasing our efforts to enhance membership services and deliver unmatched value. Our family-oriented segment plan stand out with exclusive products like Express Package offering early access to show in various program driver of new subscriptions and upgrades to this premium down. The [Foreign Language] experience program in [indiscernible] continues to boost engagement with meaningful revenue growth year-over-year.

We have created a stronger synergy between membership and advertising revenues by introducing branded rooms within the program, while also integrating membership experiments with top IPs. This quarter, we launched the IP themed membership cards for Najah 2 and The Journey of Legend Fu Shanhai, giving fans a deeper connection to their favorite story and characters.

Connecting with our audience is at the heart of what we do. Our annual flagship, July 17 iQIYI membership festival has become a signature fan appreciation event loaded with exclusive perks and irresistible subscription offers. We also strengthened membership value and loyalty from over 10 VIP-only gathering, ranging from [ mix ] to advanced screenings. We have elevated membership performance by focusing on operational optimization, aiming to boost the membership value and encourage subscribers to stay with our service longer. This includes initiatives to promote longer-term plans and targeted promotions for specific audiences. Additionally, we expanded our bundled membership partnership to 16 brands while broadening our sales channel across commerce and telecom platform.

Moving on to advertising business. In the third quarter, brand net ads recorded double-digit annual growth, mainly driven by premium variety show like The King of Stand-Up Comedy Season 2 and hit dramas like The Journey of Legend and This Thriving Land. Our content-related ad solutions continue to gain traction, contributing over 60% of brand ad revenue, key verticals such as food and beverage, Internet services and e-commerce, beauty and personal care, all showed robust annual growth. We used AI to drive production innovation and advertising efficiency with features like creative bulleting charts, and AI-generated materials, including animation [indiscernible] for innovative marketing solutions.

As we enter Q4, we aim to capitalize on major advertising opportunities, such as Double 11 shopping festival, Christmas and New Year campaign and the new smartphone launches. Our focus will be on maximizing ad sales from premium variety shows, dramas and our drama center brands, while further enhancing monetization on smart TVs. We will continue leveraging AI to improve brand advertising efficiency. For performance ads, we now have a healthier and more balanced advertiser portfolio with revenue dependent on committed individual clients. By industry, Internet services and education and training were stand-out contributors this quarter.

Looking ahead, we will focus on capturing new targets in the Internet services sector, including tools, social platforms and mini games while scaling up revenue in education and training, wellness management and e-commerce. Additionally, we plan to expand our plant -- our performance ad inventory and utilize AI to further enhance monetization efficiency.

Moving on to technology and products. We continue to harness cutting-edge technologies to transform the entertainment experience improved content production efficiency and boost content value across our platform. On the content creation front, we are leveraging AI to transform storytelling. A notable example is our partnership with Academy award-winning Mr. Peter Pau. Together, we will launch the Mr. Peter Pau AI center to pioneer the next generation of AI-driven storytelling talent development. The first titles are set to premium soon, which we are very excited for.

Additionally, we are using AI to produce high-quality original micro animation at much lower cost. Another unique example is the AI part, iQuick real connection to come, which now cover all major content categories. These features utilized a smart editing agent to automatically convert long-form videos into vertical shops, which are then included in iQuick Real collections. iQuick Real collections offer users a view experience akin to that of micro dramas. We are transforming user engagement with Taodo, an AI-powered personnel assistant that provides personalized support, including video search, recommendation and product insights.

The latest update improved recommendation for micro dramas and the short-form videos, alongside long-form content while also enhancing product Q&A capabilities. Additionally, we introduced the binge watching rankings, allowing users to track time spent on their favorite series and view their rankings. This feature has received highly positive feedback from fans.

In addition to announcing AI applications, we are driving the industrialization of video production with cutting-edge virtual production technology. Our strong virtual production capabilities now support both in-house and external products. This quarter, we launched an only indirectional of motion simulating vehicle filming platform, powered by our in-house developed iQIYI stage virtual production system, the platform naturally enhances efficiency of high-frequency vehicle film shots. It delivers streamlined repeatable workflow and has already been utilized for virtual production in major article production.

Moving on to business performance in regions outside of Mainland China. We maintained strong growth momentum in Q3. This membership revenue increased by over 40% annually. Markets like Brazil, by Spanish speaking region, Mexico and Indonesia had membership revenue more than doubled year-over-year. In this quarter, the average daily subscribers also reached all-time high. The strong performance is supported by an exceptional content lineup.

Our C-drama, Chinese drama continue to gain popularity globally with revenues grow double digit, both annually and sequentially, notably. The Thai-dubbed version of Coroner's Diary set platform records for both viewing time and peak revenue we've seen as language segment. It also topped iQIYI popularity charts in 13 overseas markets, meanwhile, our local content slate also exceeded. [ King General ], the series, [Foreign Language] emerged as a phenomenal in Thai language content this year, generating the highest membership revenue among all Thai dramas on our platform and the top related rankings on Google and Twitter.

Beyond long-form content, micro dramas continue to build strong momentum overseas. Membership revenue from micro dramas grew 114% sequentially. By the end of September, micro dramas ranked second only to long-form dramas across several core metrics, including membership revenue and viewing time. Moreover, multiple iQIYI original micro drama gained solid traction abroad. For example, How Dare You, [Foreign Language], has shown a strong long tail effect 3 months post launch. We are also expanding into locally produced micro dramas. Multiple projects in English, Thai, Korean and Indonesian are in production and are targeted for launch this year.

Looking ahead, we will continue to deliver high-quality content to international audiences, deeper partnership with telecom operators and local partners and leverage AI to drive user acquisition.

Moving on to experience business. While we are focusing on 2 key areas, IP-based consumer products and offline experiences. We are leveraging our extensive and unique IP resource to build a more robust entertainment ecosystem. For IP-based consumer products, we have upgraded our business model from a licensing-only approach to a dual-track strategy, combining self-operated merchandise with licensing. Q3 growth was strong with revenue from IP-based consumer products more than doubling year-over-year. In particular, revenue from self-oriented merchandise grew more than 70% sequentially, driven mainly by collectible cards from top drama titles.

Our self-operated portfolio has expanded beyond collectible cards into additional categories, supported by the establishment of in-house teams. For IP licensing, the hit drama, the Journey of Legend has partnered with over 30 licensees, setting a new record while expanding into multiple sectors, including e-commerce, FMCG and beauty.

In our off-line experience, experience business, we are pioneers in this emerging field. At the heart of this initiative are iQIYI labs which are designed to operate under an asset-light model. Our 2 locations, Yangzhou and Kaifeng are under development, with Yangzhou iQIYI labs scheduled to open fully next year. A third plant in Beijing has also been announced. By integrating technologies like AI and XR with own content IP, iQIYI labs will provide interactive and scalable experiences that are faster to iterate and more efficient than traditional theme parks. This approach reduces space and capital recounts, with revenue expected to come mainly from ticket sales and other on-site spending.

As 2025 draws to a close, we reflect on a year of rapid transformation driven by technical innovation and evolving business models. We are not more -- we are not merely adapting. We are advancing, fueled by our thriving overseas expansion, growing experience business and ongoing AI investments. Breakthroughs in any of these areas could elevate us to a new heights. Amid this change, our core remains the same, creating premium content IP supported by a proven commercial model. This foundation earns us the loyalty of hundreds of millions of users and the trust of industry partners. Moving forward, we will continue delivering quality content, fostering creativity with partners and driving long-term value for shareholders.

Now let me hand it over to Jun for the financials.

Jun Wang
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Mr. Gong, and hello, everyone. Now let me walk you through the key numbers for the third quarter. The total revenue for the third quarter were RMB 6.7 billion, up 1% sequentially. The membership services revenue reached RMB 4.2 billion, up 3% sequentially, driven mainly by original blockbuster drama and theatrical megahit, Nezha 2 during the summer season. The online advertising revenue was RMB 1.2 billion, decreased by 2% sequentially as the performance in the second quarter benefited from a major advertising campaign.

The content distribution revenue reached RMB 644.5 million, up 48% sequentially. The increase was mainly driven by the strong distribution performance of the original theatrical movie invested by iQIYI, along with the growth in transactions for dramas. Other revenues were RMB 585 million, down 29% sequentially.

Moving on to costs and expenses. The content cost was RMB 4 billion, up 7% sequentially as we launched a more diverse selection of premium content during the peak summer season. The total operating expenses were RMB 1.3 billion, down 3% sequentially, benefited from our disciplined expense management.

Now turning to profit and cash balances. The non-GAAP operating loss was RMB 21.9 million. Non-GAAP operating loss margin was 0.3%. As of the end of third quarter, we had cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, short-term investments and long-term restricted cash included in prepayments and other assets, a total of RMB 4.9 billion. At the quarter end, the company had a loan of USD 522.5 million to PAG, recorded under the amounts due from related parties.

For more detailed financial data, please refer to our press release on our IR website.

Now we will open the floor for Q&A.