Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Gregory Ketron - Head of Investor Relations & Treasury
Andrew Schlossberg - President, CEO & Director
Allison Dukes - Senior MD & CFO

Conference Call Participants

William Katz - TD Cowen, Research Division
Brennan Hawken - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Glenn Schorr - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Daniel Fannon - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Brian Bedell - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Benjamin Budish - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to the Invesco's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Greg Ketron, Invesco's Head of Investor Relations.

Gregory Ketron
Head of Investor Relations & Treasury

All right. Thanks, Shirley, and to all of you joining us today. In addition to the press release, we have provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address. The press release and presentation are available on our website, invesco.com. This information can be found by going to the Investor Relations section of the website. Our presentation today will include forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please review the disclosures on Slide 2 as well as the appendix for the appropriate reconciliations to GAAP. Finally, Invesco is not responsible for the accuracy of our earnings transcripts provided by third parties. The only authorized webcasts are located on our website. Andrew Schlossberg, President and CEO; and Allison Dukes, Chief Financial Officer, will present our results this morning, and we'll open up the call for questions. I'll now turn the call over to Andrew.

Andrew Schlossberg
President, CEO & Director

Okay. Thanks, Greg, and good morning to everyone. I am pleased to be speaking with you today. 2025 marked a year of significant milestones for Invesco. We focused on our clients, transformed key aspects of our business unlocked value across the organization and accelerated strategic priorities to position the firm for continued profitable growth in the evolving global asset management market. Slide 3 of our presentation highlights several of our most impactful initiatives, which are allowing us to streamline our business, drive profitability and margin expansion and strengthen our balance sheet. Significant among these accomplishments is the recapitalization of our balance sheet. We have now pulled forward a total of $1.5 billion in preferred stock that was otherwise noncallable, enabling us to further deleverage, increase our balance sheet flexibility and free up earnings available to common shareholders.

Allison is going to provide more details on the progress we have made recently with debt repayments, thus accelerating the earnings accretion of these transactions. We have also made substantial progress in our efforts to narrow our organizational focus. Following our April 2025 announcement that we were moving to a hybrid Alpha investment platform, we have onboarded several waves of assets and are now on pace to finish by the end of this year. The hybrid platform will drive simplification, improve investment systems consolidation and future cost avoidance. Also in 2025, we took several strategic actions to focus and realign our resources across the company. In the fourth quarter, we completed the sale of Intelliflo to Carlyle as well as the sale of a majority interest in our Indian asset management business to the Hinduja Group, establishing a local venture -- joint venture in India.

Our ongoing minority ownership structure in this JV will allow us to participate in the growth of the market and utilize the strength of our local partner while refocusing our resources accordingly. Earlier this month, we also announced the decision to transform our Canadian business through a strategic partnership with CI Global Asset Management. Through this transaction, CI GAM will acquire our entire Canadian mutual fund and ETF complex, which is comprised of 100 funds totaling approximately $19 billion in AUM. Importantly, we will continue as an investment sub-adviser for 63 of the funds, totaling approximately $10 billion of the AUM. We're excited about the prospects of this ongoing relationship with CI. The Canadian market has become increasingly concentrated and more vertically integrated, and we believe that CI is the right partner to address these market dynamics.

As an ongoing investment sub-adviser and strategic partner to CI, we will participate in the success of their growth, larger platform and strong presence in the Canadian market. Allison is going to detail the financial implications of these transactions later in the call, but I will note that these strategic actions are clear examples of how we are rethinking, refocusing and unlocking value in innovative ways across Invesco. One of the key pillars of our strategy is to accelerate the growth of our $130 billion private markets platform. To that end, in 2025, we announced 2 strategic private markets partnerships targeting both the U.S. wealth and the defined contribution markets. In the second quarter, we announced our partnership with Barings to launch 2 jointly managed credit strategies with $650 million in capital committed by MassMutual. We're pleased with the progress of this partnership as we recently brought our first co-managed product to the U.S. wealth management market.

The second co-managed product is currently in development and expected to be launched later this year. In December, we also announced our second strategic partnership with LGT Capital Partners, who is a leading private market specialist. We're developing co-managed total return growth-oriented multi-asset products that are targeting U.S. wealth and defined contribution investors. LGT Capital is also committing seed capital to support these new launches, which will begin later this year. These 2 partnerships complement our investment strengths in real estate and alternative credit capabilities and the progress we have made with our existing evergreen funds in the markets, such as our rapidly growing real estate debt fund. These partnerships and new product offerings are indicative of our commitment in private markets and our objective to bring more innovative solutions and education to wealth management and retirement investors, both in the United States and globally.

Finally, our 2025 transformative growth initiatives were capped off in late December with the modernization of our sizable QQQ ETF. We received the necessary votes and completed the conversion of the fund on December 20. Fund shareholders are now paying a lower fee, and we are earning revenue on the more than $400 billion of AUM in the fund. I hold deep gratitude for our team. What we collectively accomplished this past year was remarkable in bringing so many of these large-scale initiatives to fruition while also delivering exceptional operating performance. And I feel all of this bodes well for the future of Invesco.

So turning now to Slide 4 for a snapshot of our financial progress in 2025. We performed extraordinarily well against our key performance drivers, leveraging Invesco's unique position to deliver profitable growth in the highest opportunity regions, channels and asset classes. We grew net revenues 6% in 2025 with several encouraging signs for the future trajectory of our top line results. Our ETF and index investment capability produced record revenues and grew the top line by 22% as we continue to scale this business. We also generated considerable revenue growth from our Asian and EMEA regions, where combined revenue was up 13% for the year. Fundamental equity revenue was flat to the prior year, but up 4% from 2023. This is an encouraging data point as we consider the headwinds of client demand for fundamental equities and our work to stabilize this trend and focus on investment performance.

On the expense side, we continue to be disciplined, maintaining a relatively flat expense base while continuing to redeploy resources and invest in our business. This revenue growth and well-managed expenses translated into a significant operating leverage and a 230 basis point increase in our operating margin, 14% growth in our operating income and 19% improvement in earnings per share in 2025 as compared with the prior year. Further, our clients continue to demonstrate that we have the right products in the right markets at the right time. We generated over $80 billion in net long-term inflows in 2025 or 6% organic growth. Importantly, nearly 40 products each generated at least $1 billion in net inflows, reflecting the diversity and breadth of our client offering.

Considering the work we have done on the balance sheet, our leverage ratio over the past year has also significantly improved. We will continue to see progress here as we actively manage our balance sheet while continuing to return capital to shareholders. Allison is going to outline our expectations in this regard for 2026. Finally, the advancements we have made on our strategic initiatives and our efforts to unlock value across the organization have yielded a significant increase in our total shareholder returns and resulted in Invesco having the highest TSR among our publicly listed peers. We're pleased with the overall strong results in 2025, and we will continue to stay focused on our highly defined growth strategy with an emphasis on relentless execution, client centricity and teamwork across our firm.

So let's now pivot to Slide 5, focusing on fourth quarter flows. We delivered another strong quarter of broad-based net inflows, resulting in an annualized long-term organic growth rate of 5%. Markets had strong momentum coming into the quarter, which continued as U.S. and global capital markets remained resilient. Equities were robust through year-end. Fixed income rebounded with clearer rate cut expectations, and we began to see broadening investor demand beyond technology stocks. Against that backdrop, we reached a record AUM of $2.2 trillion with strong net long-term inflows of $19 billion in the fourth quarter. Even more encouraging was the breadth of this growth, reflecting our diversified scaled global platform. We had solid positive flows across several dimensions, including many of our strategically important investment capabilities in both our active and passive strategies in equity and fixed income and across wealth management and institutional channels.

Specifically, we were pleased to see continued strong flow growth in EMEA and Asia Pacific regions, which together account for nearly $700 billion of our long-term AUM. We continue to scale our ETF and Index capability, which now stands at a record $630 billion in AUM ex the QQQ. We had nearly $12 billion of net inflows during the quarter or 8% annualized organic growth. Within our ETF range, we garnered net inflows across a diverse set of products in both equity and fixed income despite a nearly $4 billion headwind from the BulletShares redemption that happens annually in the fourth quarter. We also continue to build out our active ETF suite. With our most recent launches, we now have nearly 40 active ETFs across a range of asset classes, bringing the depth of our active investment capabilities into the ETF wrapper has long been a part of our overall strategy and will continue to be as we innovate to meet evolving client demand.

With our QQQ fund conversion on December 20, flows are now included in our long-term view. However, for the fourth quarter, that means we just had a fraction of the $13 billion in total QQQ net flows counted into our overall long-term flow number presented here. The fund continues to attract strong demand, reaching a record high of $407 billion in AUM at quarter end. Moving on to fundamental fixed income, where we garnered $2.2 billion in net long-term inflows. However, this only considers what is included in our fundamental fixed income strategies. If you look more broadly at the asset class across all of our investment capabilities, that net flow number jumps to nearly $12 billion of inflows in the quarter with the inclusion of related ETF and China-based fixed income products. Fundamental fixed income flows were driven by continued strength in investment grade with institutional interest particularly strong from EMEA and Asia Pacific. We also saw ongoing demand for our leading stable value product in the U.S. defined contribution market.

Additionally, our SMA platform in the U.S. continued to help drive flows, particularly in municipal bond strategies. Our entire SMA platform, which also includes a portion of equity assets, now stands at $35 billion in AUM. We have one of the fastest-growing SMA offerings in the U.S. wealth market, generating an annualized organic growth rate of 7% this quarter. Moving on to our China JV, which now only reflects our domestic Invesco Great Wall business. Here, we produced another exceptionally strong quarter, demonstrating that we are exceedingly well positioned for the shifting dynamics in this market. We reached a record high AUM of $132 billion, delivering a robust $8.9 billion of net long-term inflows, marking one of our best quarters to date and representing a 36% annualized organic growth rate. Flows in the China JV were led by fixed income plus demand from both retail and institutional clients.

This product line has industry-leading investment performance and is benefiting from increased client risk appetite as these funds provide an effective means of balancing fixed income with enhanced equity exposure. We're also seeing interest in pure equity strategies via passive funds as demand for stand-alone active equity has been slower to regenerate. We continue to innovate in our China JV to meet evolving client demand across active, passive and multi-asset capabilities. We launched 4 new products in the JV this quarter, but it's important to note that existing products remain the predominant driver of organic growth, an indication of the breadth of our platform. We expect to continue to benefit in the China JV as both the secular and now cyclical tailwinds develop. Shifting to private markets, where we posted $300 million of net inflows driven by direct real estate. INCREF, which is our real estate debt strategy targeting the U.S. wealth management channel, continues to generate net inflows and be onboarded with new platforms and clients.

INCREF is now on 3 of the 4 major U.S. wealth management platforms. Assets in this fund with leverage now total $4.7 billion after just over 2 years in the market. In private credit, we had good activity during the quarter. We closed another U.S. CLO, bringing our issuance total to $2.5 billion across the U.S. and Europe in 2025 as these products continue to offer meaningful value versus corporate bonds. In direct lending, we launched our first European long-term investment fund, or LTIF. This European upper middle market income fund was launched with the support from several anchor clients. Private credit remains in a strong position. Despite a lower M&A environment, fundraising continues to be robust. However, deployment challenges persist due to fewer transactions in the current environment. With rate cuts pending this year, it's anticipated that deal activity will pick up, particularly within direct lending.

CLOs are expected to benefit from increased allocation to broader fixed income even as carry compresses. Furthermore, our real estate team remains well positioned in the institutional markets with $7 billion of dry powder to capitalize on emerging opportunities. As we look ahead, we are excited for our prospects in private markets, driven by our organic growth opportunities and amplified by our partnerships with Barings and LGT Capital to further penetrate the wealth management and defined contribution markets. Finally, in fundamental equities, we continue to see aggregate positive flows from our clients in EMEA and Asia Pacific, specifically for global and regional products. Ongoing momentum in these markets is headlined by our Global Equity Income fund, managed out of the U.K., which remains the top-selling retail active fund in the Japanese market and is gaining increased interest more broadly.

This fund posted net inflows of $3 billion for the quarter, rapidly growing to $23 billion in AUM while generating a very favorable net revenue yield for Invesco. Despite these positive fundamental equity flow highlights, we did record $5.5 billion in net outflows overall in this segment. Our results partially reflects the broader secular outflow trend in actively managed equities, particularly in the United States. This was compounded by the expected net outflows from our developing markets fund, which totaled $1.5 billion for the quarter. This was partially driven by our strategic decision to reposition this fund with a new internal portfolio management team this past summer. The outflow rate in this fund has moderated from the recent high we experienced last quarter. I will also point out that on a gross sales basis, we had our best fundamental equities flow quarter since the beginning of 2022, giving us optimism of future prospects.

Moving to Slide 6, which shows our overall investment performance relative to benchmarks and peers as well as our performance in key capabilities where information is readily comparable and more meaningful to driving results. Investment performance is key to winning and maintaining market share regardless of overall market demand. As such, achieving first quartile investment performance remains a top priority for Invesco. Overall, 44% of our active funds are performing in the top quartile of peers on a 3-year time horizon, with nearly half reaching that bar on a 5-year basis. Further, 70% of our active AUM is beating its respective benchmark also on a 5-year basis. With that, I'm going to take a pause, and I'm going to turn the call over to Allison to discuss this quarter's financial results, and I look forward to your questions.

Allison Dukes
Senior MD & CFO

Thank you, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. I'll start with the fourth quarter financial results on Slide 7. Strong markets and net asset inflows drove assets under management to $2.2 trillion at quarter end. This was $45 billion or 2% higher than at the end of the third quarter and $324 billion or 18% higher than the end of the fourth quarter of 2024. With the QQQ conversion in late December, long-term AUM now includes the QQQ ETF. Ending long-term AUM increased significantly over prior periods due to the addition of the QQQ. Average long-term AUM, which includes the 12 days that the Q was classified as long term, reached nearly $1.6 trillion, an increase of 8% over last quarter and 21% over the same quarter last year. Growth in total assets under management during the quarter was driven largely by net long-term inflows of $19 billion and market gains of $11 billion.

Net revenues, adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin all significantly improved from last quarter and the fourth quarter of 2024, while adjusted operating expenses continued to be well managed. This drove meaningful positive operating leverage on both a sequential quarter and year-over-year basis. On a sequential quarter basis, positive operating leverage was 340 basis points, delivering a 220 basis point operating margin improvement in the fourth quarter, improving to 36.4%. On a year-over-year basis, positive operating leverage was 440 basis points, delivering a 270 basis point improvement in the operating margin. Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.62 for the fourth quarter. Our focus on strengthening the balance sheet continued during the quarter. We repurchased an additional $500 million of preferred stock in December, bringing the total amount repurchased to $1.5 billion in 2025 and reducing the outstanding preferred stock from $4 billion to $2.5 billion at year-end.

We also repaid the remaining $240 million of the 3-year term loan used to finance the preferred stock repurchase in May, meaning $500 million of the term loans used to finance the May repurchase are now repaid. The $1.5 billion of preferred stock repurchased in 2025 is expected to generate a $0.20 EPS benefit once the associated debt to fund the repurchases is repaid. Given that we've repaid $0.5 billion of the $1 billion in term loans earlier than projected, coupled with the benefit of replacing the higher cost preferred stock with lower cost floating rate debt, we've now captured $0.11 of the EPS run rate benefit on a go-forward basis. The magnitude of the potential reduction in the remaining $500 million term loan that matures in 2030 will depend on the level of cash flow we generate going forward. Additionally, as our focus on deleveraging continues, we recently redeemed a $500 million senior notes that matured on January 15.

Finally, we also continued common share repurchases, buying back $25 million or 1 million shares during the quarter. Moving to Slide 8. The decline in our net revenue yield continued at a slower pace than a year ago. Client demand continues to drive diversification of our portfolio with strong growth in ETFs and Index and fundamental fixed income capabilities, while demand for fundamental equity, particularly global equity, has been weaker. While the concentration of higher fee fundamental equity products has been reduced, our asset mix has shifted towards a higher degree of lower fee products, namely ETFs and Index and fundamental fixed income capabilities. The more balanced AUM profile better positions the firm to navigate various market cycles, events and shifting client demand, but this has also resulted in a decline in the net revenue yield over time.

To provide context for the net revenue yield trend during the fourth quarter, our overall net revenue yield was 22.5 basis points. This is similar to the sequential quarter decline that we've experienced in the prior 2 quarters and the magnitude of the last 3 quarterly declines is notably lower than prior quarters, a sign we're closer to reaching a degree of stabilization in the yield. The future direction of asset mix shift will dictate the net revenue yield trajectory. The exit net revenue yield at the end of the fourth quarter was actually higher than the yield for the quarter at 22.7 basis points, partly driven by the QQQ reclassification in late December.

Turning to Slide 9. Net revenue of $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter was $102 million higher compared to the same quarter last year. The increase in net revenue was largely from investment management fees, mainly driven by higher average AUM and augmented by the QQQ reclassification in late December. Operating expenses continue to be well managed with an increase of $34 million versus the same quarter last year, mainly driven by higher employee compensation. The $17 million increase in G&A was largely due to a $13 million insurance reimbursement recognized in the fourth quarter of 2024. On a sequential quarter basis, the increases in net revenues and operating expenses were driven by similar operating dynamics. The net result was a substantial increase in positive operating leverage on both a year-over-year and sequential quarter basis. The hybrid investment platform implementation costs were $13 million in the fourth quarter, in line with our expectation and prior quarters.

The incremental operating expense associated with AUM that have been moved on to the hybrid platform was $3 million in the fourth quarter. We continue to implement the hybrid approach with expected completion by the end of 2026. Regarding the hybrid investment platform costs for 2026, we expect onetime implementation quarterly costs to start in the $10 million to $15 million range and trend more towards $15 million per quarter as implementation continues with the push to have implementation completed by year-end. As we transition more AUM onto the platform throughout the year, the incremental expense related to AUM on the platform will build towards $10 million per quarter later this year. Expenses associated with the platform may fluctuate quarter-to-quarter due to timing.

Comparing 2026 to 2025, we expect incrementally higher costs related to the hybrid platform with the combined implementation costs and expenses associated with AUM on the system to be $25 million to $30 million higher in 2026 versus 2025. We'll provide further updates as the implementation progresses. Regarding our overall operating expense outlook, level setting to fourth quarter AUM, annualized operating expenses would be $3.2 billion, which is a good base to start with for 2026. We still believe that our operating expense base is approximately 25% variable in relation to changes in net revenue, and this still holds true with the QQQ now earning revenue. There are other factors that will impact the 2026 operating expenses to consider.

While the transactions that were completed in the fourth quarter, namely the creation of the India JV and the sale of Intelliflo have de minimis impact on operating income, there will be an impact from these transactions on net revenues and operating expenses in 2026. On a combined basis, the 2 entities contributed net revenue and operating expenses of approximately $100 million in 2025. Going forward, India's operating results will no longer be reported as Invesco's operating income, including the associated revenues and expenses. Our 40% share of the JV's net income will be reported in equity and earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. As for Intelliflo, the results from operations no longer impact Invesco's operating results. Andrew noted the benefits of transforming our Canadian business through a strategic partnership with CI Investments. This will have a nominal impact on our operating results after the expected closing towards the end of the second quarter.

Beginning in the third quarter, operating income will be negatively impacted by $5 million to $10 million per quarter initially, comprised of comprised of a $15 million to $20 million reduction in net revenue per quarter and an operating expense reduction of $5 million to $10 million per quarter. We expect this will improve as the long-term growth benefits of the strategic partnership are realized with net revenues growing while the operating expense benefit moves closer to $10 million per quarter in the future. As we've outlined, marketing associated with the QQQ will now be recognized in marketing operating expenses starting in 2026. And we expect marketing expenses related to the QQQ will be near the midpoint of the $60 million to $100 million range we have previously disclosed.

We're also making incremental changes to our retirement eligibility criteria for our long-term awards in 2026 that will result in a timing change on how we recognize retirement-related expenses. We expect the net impact of these changes will be an increase of approximately $10 million in compensation expense for the full year 2026, with compensation expense being approximately $30 million in the first quarter -- excuse me, with the compensation expense being approximately $30 million higher in the first quarter than fourth quarter of 2025 and then offset by lower compensation expense for the remainder of the year, netting to the total $10 million impact for the year.

As a reminder, we typically see seasonally higher compensation expense in the first quarter due to payroll tax and other compensation-related expense that resets that -- the other compensation-related expense resets the total approximately $20 million. And as I noted earlier, hybrid platform expenses are expected to be $25 million to $30 million higher in 2026. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 21%, below our expectation due to the gain on sale of India being tax-free and other discrete items. For the first quarter, we estimate our non-GAAP effective tax rate will move back to the 25% to 26% range, excluding any discrete items. The actual effective rate can vary due to the impact of nonrecurring items on pretax income and discrete tax items.

Now I'll wrap up on Slide 10. As I noted earlier, we continue to make considerable progress on building balance sheet strength and improving our leverage profile. In December, we repurchased an additional $500 million of preferred stock held by MassMutual, bringing the total preferred stock repurchased in 2025 to $1.5 billion, which will ultimately create a $0.20 run rate EPS benefit. And as I noted, we also repaid the remaining $240 million of the $500 million 3-year term loan used to fund the first repurchase of preferred stock last year, leaving only $500 million in the 5-year maturity term loan. By repurchasing $1.5 billion of preferred stock, we have reduced the preferred dividend by $88.5 million annually, and this will now become earnings available to common shareholders in the future.

We also continued common share repurchases in the fourth quarter, buying back $25 million or 1 million shares during the quarter. We intend to continue a regular common share repurchase program going forward and expect common share repurchases to increase to $40 million in the first quarter. We will continually evaluate our capital return levels as we target a total payout ratio, including common dividends and share buybacks to be near 60% for 2026. The repurchase of the preferred stock and repayment of the 3-year term loan improved our leverage ratio from 2.8x a year ago to 2.2x for the fourth quarter. The leverage ratio, excluding the preferred stock remained well below 1 at 0.73x. We also redeemed the $500 million senior note that matured on January 15.

Going forward, we expect further progress in our leverage profile as we repay revolving credit and term loan debt through operating cash flows. To conclude, the strength of our net flows performance and diversity of our business is evident once again this quarter, and we delivered strong revenue growth. This, combined with well-managed expenses resulted in significant operating leverage and a sizable improvement in our operating margin. We also continue to make progress on building a stronger balance sheet. We're committed to driving profitable growth, a high level of financial performance and enhancing the return of capital to our shareholders. And with that, Shirley, we'll open up the operator -- sorry, we'll open up the line for Q&A.

