Jack in the Box Inc. (JACK) Q4 2025 Earnings Call November 19, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Rachel Webb - VP of Finance and Investor Relations
Lance Tucker - CEO & Director
Dawn Hooper - Executive VP & CFO
Ryan Ostrom - Executive VP & Chief Customer & Digital Officer

Conference Call Participants

Brian Bittner - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Alexander Slagle - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Sara Senatore - BofA Securities, Research Division
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Gregory Francfort - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Dennis Geiger - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brian Harbour - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Andrew Charles - TD Cowen, Research Division
Logan Reich - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
James Sanderson - Northcoast Research Partners, LLC
Jake Bartlett - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. My name is Tina, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Jack in the Box Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year Earnings call. [Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Rachel Webb, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Rachel Webb
VP of Finance and Investor Relations

Thanks, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. We appreciate you joining today's conference call, highlighting results from our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2025. With me today are Chief Executive Officer, Lance Tucker; our Chief Financial Officer, Dawn Hooper; and our Chief Customer and Digital Officer, Ryan Ostrom. Following their prepared remarks, we will be happy to take questions from our covering sell-side analysts.

Note that during both our discussion and Q&A, we may refer to non-GAAP items. Please refer to the non-GAAP reconciliations provided in the earnings release, which is available on our Investor Relations website at jackinthebox.com.

We will also be making forward-looking statements based on current information and judgments that reflect management's outlook for the future. However, actual results may differ materially from these expectations because of business risks. We, therefore, consider the safe harbor statement in the earnings release and the cautionary statements in our most recent 10-K to be part of our discussion. Material risk factors as well as information relating to company operations are detailed in our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and other public documents filed with the SEC and are available on our Investor Relations website.

Additionally, the company intends to file a proxy statement and related materials with the SEC in connection with the 2026 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Our directors and certain officers will be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the annual meeting. Stockholders are encouraged to read the proxy statement and related materials when they become available as they will contain important information, including the identity of the participants and their direct or indirect interest by security holdings or otherwise.

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Lance Tucker.

Lance Tucker
CEO & Director

Thanks, Rachel, and I appreciate everyone joining us today. I want to begin by thanking our teams, our franchisees and our shareholders. Fiscal 2025 was an eventful year for Jack in the Box, and I continue to be inspired by our stakeholders' passion and support for the efforts we're making to unlock the company's long-term potential. As we approach our 75th anniversary, we're committed to improving performance today while laying the foundation for sustained shareholder value over the next 75 years.

Throughout today's prepared remarks, I'll provide an update on our JACK on Track plan, the current state of the business and the actions we are taking to restore momentum at Jack in the Box and position the company for sustainable growth. I'll then turn it over to Dawn for a deeper dive into fourth quarter results, our 2026 outlook, along with how to think about the stand-alone Jack in the Box model going forward.

When we announced JACK on Track back in April, one of our key goals was to simplify the business and sharpen our investment thesis. I'm pleased with the progress we have made so far. As you saw in October, we announced the pending divestiture of Del Taco. This is a meaningful step that, when complete, will allow us to fully recenter our attention on strengthening the Jack in the Box brand and executing the remaining elements of our JACK on Track plan. I want to thank the Del Taco team for their partnership throughout this transition.

We've also made good progress on our closure program and have numerous real estate transactions in process, so these key components of the JACK on Track program are also progressing as expected. While we're pleased with our progress on our JACK on Track initiatives, we are clearly not satisfied with our 2025 operating performance, and we are rebuilding our operational discipline to drive growth and shareholder value in 2026 and well beyond. I'll speak more to this shortly.

Now turning to our fourth quarter results. Our fourth quarter was really a story of 2 halves. The first few weeks of the quarter started off rocky, as I alluded to on our last conference call. Our value equation was not resonating and lacked enough price point value, and we moved swiftly to address it with more demonstrable value later in the quarter. Coming out of August, we adapted quickly and implemented a true barbell promotional strategy. We pivoted media and marketing to feature our $4.99 Bonus Jack combo, a compelling offer that resonates well with our value-seeking guests.

We also featured our $5 Smashed Jack in a culturally relevant sporting event that included pulsing digital offers, all of which drove incremental trial of the best burger in QSR. The overall result, transactions improved throughout the quarter as guests opted into our value strategy, though check remained pressured, particularly as we continue to lap significant price increases from last year taken to combat big wage increases. All told, sales trends improved roughly 300 basis points throughout the course of the fourth quarter.

As we've moved into the first quarter, our barbell strategy continues, and we largely maintained similar performance to what we saw at the end of Q4. Though like many brands, we've recently seen a few weeks of downward pressure tied to the effects of the government shutdown as well as lapping several weeks of our own stronger results from last year. Beyond the promotions we ran in Q4, we've made several changes to our menu to improve everyday value. In early October, we rightsized pricing on 3 of our signature combos, making them more affordable for our guests. We've also increased our cup sizes on small combos.

While we know these changes won't improve results overnight, we are taking necessary steps to enhance how we improve our value perception, and we will continue refining our menu strategy. Over the past few months, we've pulled several levers to drive improvement, but there's still significant progress to be made. Our category is more competitive than ever, and consumers are very careful about where they spend. We are committed to a strategy grounded in driving value for guests while protecting profitability for ourselves and our franchisees, whether through boosting check or driving cost efficiency.

We also know the entire guest experience plays into the value perception, not just promotion or price. As we build the foundation for Jack's Way, we are focused on consistency, consistency across our operations, our food quality and an elevated overall experience for the guests.

First, we are making strides in operational excellence. We identified a critical gap in our field support and restructure our field teams to spend more than twice as much time in restaurants. This helps provide more real-time coaching to our team members and hold restaurants more accountable while also rewarding top performers. In the near term, we are retraining the entire system with a disciplined focus on getting back to basics. It isn't glamorous, but it is essential. And we have already received great feedback from our franchisees and employees on these efforts.

Second, doing things Jack's Way also means serving high-quality food and leading the way with innovation. Our priority is clear. We need to serve hotter, juicer burgers with greater consistency across the system. So we've challenged ourselves to rethink how we deliver starting with the fundamentals, cooking procedures, ingredients and training. Shannon McKinney is doing a great job driving rapid improvement in our ops fundamentals.

We've also reinvested in culinary innovation and welcomed our new executive chef, Ciaran Duffy, to lead the effort. He has already shared concepts that we believe will elevate both quality and craveability for our guests. As we celebrate Jack's 75th anniversary and bring back some of our customer fan favorites for a limited time, we will be ramping up our innovation and quality improvements that position us to exit 2026 in a much stronger place than we entered.

The final component of Jack's Way is modernizing our restaurants. We continue to work through the tenets of a comprehensive reimage program, and we'll keep you updated on our progress. Meanwhile, we are currently testing a proof of concept on a handful of restaurants with a mini refresh that can be executed quickly while generating modest uplift for the brand, so we can get some immediate learnings.

We know all of these things must work in tandem, the right menu, the right level of service and a welcome environment and an overall experience that meets the customers' expectations. As you can probably tell, but to put a little finer point on it, 2026 will very much be a rebuilding year.

Looking ahead to the next 12 months, here's what I expect Jack in the Box to achieve. First and foremost, expect same-store sales for Jack in the Box brand to return to positive as we utilize our barbell promotional approach throughout the year, enhance our operations and improve the overall guest experience. Second, I expect the Del Taco divestiture and associated TSA will be fully completed, and we will be well on our way to rightsizing the organization as a stand-alone Jack in the Box brand. Third, our restaurant base will be substantially cleaned up with the closure of many of our underperforming restaurants behind us. Sales transfer from closed restaurants will benefit our remaining restaurants and profitability will be improved. Fourth, later in the year, I expect us to begin actively executing a reimage program that will ultimately impact the majority of our restaurants, driving even stronger volumes and generating more guest excitement around the brand. And finally, we will have made significant progress in paying down our debt with a market improvement and reducing our overall debt levels.

As you can tell, there is real work ahead, but we have the right plan in place and the right leadership focus to execute our plans in the coming months. And while 2025 was a challenging year, Jack in the Box remains in a position of strength with AUVs approaching $2 million, a resilient and dedicated franchise base and core brand equities to leverage as we work to restore momentum.

You can continue to expect transparency from us on progress as we're building towards long-term sustainable growth. We expect to exit 2026 as a stronger, more disciplined and more valuable Jack in the Box, positioned to drive sustained profitability and create long-term shareholder value.

I will now turn the call over to Dawn to dive deeper into fourth quarter results and specifics around 2026 guidance.

Dawn Hooper
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Lance, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll start by reviewing the results of the 2 brands individually and then will provide details on our fourth quarter 2025 consolidated performance and 2026 guidance.

Beginning with Jack in the Box, our fourth quarter system same-store sales declined 7.4%, with franchise same-store sales decreasing 7.6% and company-owned same-store sales down 5.3%. This result included a decrease in transactions and negative mix, partially offset by a 2.4% increase in price. As Lance mentioned, we did see improvement throughout the quarter ending Q4 roughly 300 basis points stronger than we started the quarter.

Turning to restaurant count. For the fourth quarter, there were 15 Jack restaurant openings and 47 closures, and we ended the year with 2,136 restaurants. Jack restaurant level margin for the quarter decreased year-over-year by 240 basis points to 16.1%. The margin decrease was driven by sales deleverage, commodity inflation of 6.9% and elevated labor costs as a result of opening 8 new restaurants in Chicago.

Food and packaging costs as a percentage of company-owned sales remained flat at 30.3% as a result of favorable funding from our new beverage contract as well as price increases offset by commodity inflation and negative mix as consumers shifted into price-pointed promotions, as Lance mentioned. From a commodity standpoint, our largest inflationary category was beef, consistent with industry trends.

Labor costs as a percentage of company-owned sales increased 100 basis points to 33.7%, primarily due to the elevated labor at our new restaurant openings in Chicago, partially offset by a reversal of additional FUTA taxes in California.

Jack in the Box opened 8 restaurants within 12 weeks in Chicago, which was 1 of the fastest new market openings we've completed in recent history. We are seeing excitement from customers around these openings, but there was a significant impact to our P&L for the quarter. The Chicago market had a negative 130 basis point drag on our overall company restaurant level margin.

We are taking swift actions to improve the margin compression driven by this market. While volumes remain strong, with annual unit volumes projected to exceed $2 million, labor costs were elevated this quarter as we staffed up the market to ensure first-time guests received the best possible experience.

Occupancy and other operating costs as a percentage of company-owned sales increased 130 basis points to 19.9%, primarily due to higher costs for rent, security and third-party delivery fees. Franchise-level margin was $62.6 million or 38.9% of franchise revenues compared to $70.9 million or 40.4% a year ago. The decrease was driven by lower franchise same-store sales and lapping $2.6 million of nonrecurring lease termination revenue from franchisees, partially offset by higher early termination fees collected in connection with our closure program.

For a quick update on JACK on Track, I'll start with the restaurant block closure program. In Q4, we closed 38 restaurants under this initiative, all of which were franchise locations.

Turning to real estate activity. We sold 3 real estate properties during the quarter, generating $4.8 million in proceeds, which will be used to pay down debt. We also continue to reduce capital expenditures sequentially as we remain focused on disciplined capital allocation.

And lastly, as announced in October, we entered into a material agreement to sell Del Taco. Overall, we are making progress on our JACK on Track plan every quarter.

Now taking a look at Del Taco results. For Del Taco, system same-store sales declined 3.9%, consisting of company-owned same-store sales down 3.1% and franchise same-store sales down 4.2%. This decline was driven by a decrease in transactions and an unfavorable mix, partially offset by a 2.8% increase in price. For the fourth quarter, there were 4 restaurant openings and 13 restaurant closures. Del Taco ended the year with a restaurant count of 576 locations.

Del Taco restaurant level margin was 6.8% as compared to 9.3% in the prior year. This decrease was primarily driven by the impact of opening 17 locations in Colorado, transaction declines, inflationary increases in commodities slightly offset by menu price increases. Food and packaging costs increased 260 basis points to 27.8% due to unfavorable mix and commodity inflation of 5.1%.

Labor costs remained flat at 39% as elevated labor costs from the reopening of 17 locations in Colorado was offset by a reversal of additional FUTA taxes in California. Occupancy and other costs decreased 10 basis points to 26.4%, driven primarily by favorable utilities.

Franchise level margin was $6.8 million or 30% of franchise revenues compared to $6 million or 26.5% in the prior year. The increase was driven by a lease buyout transaction and early termination penalties partially offset by lower sales and higher bad debt expense.

Moving to our consolidated results. SG&A for the fourth quarter was $36.6 million or 11.2% of revenues as compared to $30 million or 8.6% a year ago. The increase was primarily driven by the $5.5 million incremental advertising contribution we made during the quarter, higher information technology costs, the rollover of favorable insurance claim development factors from the prior year and a decrease in COLI gains. These impacts were partially offset by lower share-based compensation and reduced incentive compensation tied to performance. Excluding the net COLI gains, along with company-owned marketing expenses, G&A was $27 million or 2.4% of total system-wide sales.

For the quarter, we spent approximately $3.9 million in preopening costs. The majority of this investment supported new restaurant openings in Chicago for the Jack in the Box brand, with the remainder related to reopening the Colorado market for the Del Taco brand.

Consolidated adjusted EBITDA was $45.6 million, down from $65.5 million in the prior year due primarily to lower same-store sales at both brands. For the full year adjusted EBITDA was $270.9 million, inside of our revised guidance range. GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.30 for the quarter compared to $1.12 in the prior year. Operating earnings per share, which includes certain adjustments, was $0.30 for the quarter versus $1.16 in the prior year.

Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was negative 30.4% compared to 29.2% in the prior year quarter. The negative rate this quarter was primarily driven by incremental nontaxable gains from the market performance of insurance products used to fund certain nonqualified retirement plans along with favorable state audit accruals recorded during the period.

The non-GAAP operating EPS tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2025 was 11.9% and was 25.4% for the full fiscal year. The lower non-GAAP operating EPS tax rate for the fourth quarter was primarily due to favorable state audit accruals recorded in the quarter.

Capital expenditures were $17.9 million for the quarter. Cash flows from operations for the quarter were $33.7 million, and cash flows from operations for the full fiscal year was $162.3 million.

We did not repurchase any shares in the fourth quarter. For the full year, we repurchased 0.1 million shares for $5 million. As of year-end, we had $175 million remaining under our Board-authorized share repurchase program. We ended the year with an unrestricted cash balance of $51.5 million. We also had available borrowing capacity of $96.8 million. Our total debt at year-end was $1.7 billion with our net debt to adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio at 6x.

As we look to 2026, we want to share the stand-alone Jack business model. Del Taco results will be reflected in discontinued operations in our Q1 2026 financial statements, pending successful close of the sale, which we expect to occur within Q1. Upon close, we will be required to file pro forma financials presenting a 3-year look back of what our results would have been without Del Taco. After this, we plan to host a call with our analyst community to walk through the stand-alone model and assumptions in more detail.

Before getting into specifics, I do want to reiterate the primary source of uncertainty in our 2026 outlook, the timing of our JACK on Track initiative. Restaurant closures may shift based on factors such as franchisee readiness, lease dynamics and market conditions. Similarly, while we do expect real estate proceeds during 2026, the exact timing of those transactions will depend on market conditions and our pace alongside our debt paydown plan.

Both of these add a level of variability to our sales, restaurant counts and franchise level margin estimates for the year and thus impact our overall adjusted EBITDA expectations. Please know our guidance reflects our current best assumptions. We will provide more color on this throughout the year as our assumptions update.

Now to specific guidance. We expect to end fiscal 2026 between 2,050 restaurants to 2,100 restaurants. We expect same-store sales of negative 1% to positive 1% versus the prior year. Please keep in mind, as you model company sales, that you factor in our new market of Chicago, which will not be included in same-store sales but are expected to have AUVs above $2 million.

We expect company restaurant level margin of 17% to 18%. This includes mid-single-digit commodity inflation largely driven by beef. Keep in mind, we are also rolling over a favorable beverage contract benefit from 2025. Restaurant level margin guidance also includes low single-digit wage inflation and our expectation for continued margin compression in the first quarter driven by our Chicago market.

We expect franchise level margin of $275 million to $290 million. Franchise level margin is the most impacted area on the P&L from JACK on Track through both closures and real estate sales. Like we mentioned on our last call, we expect a negative impact to franchise level margin of approximately $80,000 per closure. With a closure range of 60 to 100, this equates to roughly $4.8 million to $8 million on an annualized basis. As a reminder, franchise level margin also had a benefit in fiscal 2025 of $5.2 million tied to rent spread monetization transactions with franchisees related to right of first refusals.

We expect SG&A expenses of $125 million to $135 million. Accounting for roughly $31 million in Del Taco-specific G&A and advertising as well as impact of incremental Jack in the Box marketing spend, COLI gains, favorable share-based compensation and lower incentive compensation in 2025, a comparable SG&A figure for fiscal 2025 is $134 million. For fiscal 2026, G&A, excluding selling and advertising, is expected to be approximately 2.5% of system-wide sales. We expect this to remain elevated for the first half of the year and then improve into the back half as we restructure following the sale of Del Taco.

Similar to prior divestitures, we will enter into a transition services agreement, or TSA, and we expect income to offset some of our G&A as part of that agreement. This guidance does not reflect that benefit, and we will share more as we learn the total TSA amount and timing. We expect preopening costs of less than $0.5 million and depreciation and amortization of $45 million to $50 million.

Adjusted EBITDA for the full year is expected to be $225 million to $240 million. And finally, as part of the JACK on Track plan, we expect to pay down $263 million in debt by retiring the August 2026 tranche of our securitization with proceeds from the Del Taco divestiture, cash on hand, proceeds from real estate sales and potentially borrowings on our VFN to preserve flexibility.

We recognize that rebuilding takes time, and 2026 is about executing against JACK on Track and restoring momentum for the Jack in the Box brand. You have our commitment to transparency and to maintaining financial rigor as we make decisions that impact our guests, employees, franchisees and shareholders. We look forward to speaking with you again in February as we release first quarter results.

And with that, operator, please feel free to open the line for Q&A.