Jabil Inc. (JBL) Q1 2026 Earnings Call December 17, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Adam Berry - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & Communications
Gregory Hebard - Chief Financial Officer
Michael Meheryar Dastoor - CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Ruplu Bhattacharya - BofA Securities, Research Division
Manmohanpreet Singh - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Steven Fox - Fox Advisors LLC
Ruben Roy - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Melissa Dailey Fairbanks - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Mark Delaney - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Timothy Long - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings. Welcome to Jabil's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to Adam Berry, SVP, IR and Communications. Thank you. You may begin.

Adam Berry
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & Communications

Good morning, and welcome to Jabil's First Quarter Fiscal 2026 Conference Call. Joining me on today's call are Chief Executive Officer, Mike Dastoor; and Chief Financial Officer, Greg Hebard. Please note that today's presentation is being live streamed. And during our prepared remarks, we will be referencing slides. To view these slides, please visit the Investor Relations section of jabil.com. After today's presentation concludes, a complete recording will be available on our website for playback. In addition, we will be making forward-looking statements during this presentation, including, among other things, those regarding the anticipated outlook for our business, such as our currently expected second quarter and full fiscal year 2026 net revenue and earnings.

These statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involving risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. An extensive list of these risks and uncertainties is identified in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2025, and other filings with the SEC. Jabil disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. With that, I'd now like to hand the call over to Greg.

Gregory Hebard
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Adam, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining our call today. This quarter, we exceeded expectations across the board. Revenue, core operating income, core margins and core earnings per share all came in strong. Our performance underscores the value of our diversified portfolio and our consistent execution. Intelligent Infrastructure led the way with impressive growth, while Regulated Industries and Connected Living & Digital Commerce delivered steady results in line with or above our outlook. Let's now walk through our numbers. Net revenue for Q1 was $8.3 billion, at the high end of our guidance range. The mix in revenue and ongoing cost discipline helped us achieve core operating income of $454 million and a core operating margin of 5.5%. On a GAAP basis, operating income was $283 million, and GAAP diluted earnings per share was $1.35.

Core diluted earnings per share for Q1 was $2.85, coming in at the upper end of our guidance range. Turning now to performance by segment in the quarter. Regulated Industries generated $3.1 billion in revenue, in line with expectations and up 4% year-over-year. Automotive and renewables came in largely as expected, and Healthcare continued to deliver steady, reliable revenue performance. Core operating margin was 5.8%, up 110 basis points year-over-year, reflecting solid and disciplined execution across the segment and ongoing strength in Healthcare. Intelligent Infrastructure revenue was $3.9 billion, ahead of expectations. The upside was primarily driven by strength in our cloud and data center infrastructure as well as our networking end markets. In Cloud & DCI, we saw higher revenue due to strong execution as we ramp our second hyperscale customer in Mexico, along with robust results from our data center power operations in Memphis.

The upside in networking was primarily driven by stronger demand for next-generation liquid-cooled platforms, which we currently support in India. Core operating margin for the segment was 5.2%, up 40 basis points year-over-year, supported by mix and strong execution. Connected Living & Digital Commerce revenue was $1.4 billion, ahead of expectations with broad-based strength in automation, robotics and retail warehouse programs. Core operating margin for the segment was 5.5%. Next, I'll provide an update on our cash flow and balance sheet metrics. Inventory days for the quarter came in at 70 days. Net of inventory deposits from customers, inventory days were 57 days, consistent with our targeted range of 55 to 60 days. Cash flow from operations in Q1 was $323 million, and net capital expenditures were $51 million, resulting in adjusted free cash flow of $272 million for the quarter. We remain on track to deliver $1.3 billion in adjusted free cash flow for the full year.

We ended the quarter with a healthy balance sheet, including net debt to core EBITDA of 1.2x and cash balances of $1.6 billion. During Q1, we repurchased $300 million of shares under our existing share repurchase authorization. With that, let's turn to our guidance for Q2 FY '26. Beginning with revenue by segment, we anticipate Regulated Industries' revenue of $2.78 billion, up 2% year-on-year, reflecting an appropriately disciplined outlook for automotive and renewables with continued growth in Healthcare. Intelligent Infrastructure revenue of $3.76 billion, up 42% year-on-year, supported by sustained strong demand across cloud, data center infrastructure, data center power, networking, liquid cooling and capital equipment. This also includes a modest contribution from the previously announced Hanley Energy acquisition, which our guidance assumes will close sometime in January.

Connected Living & Digital Commerce revenue of $1.21 billion, down 10%, reflecting planned program attrition and customer pruning, partially offset by continued growth in warehouse and retail automation. Putting it all together at the enterprise level, total company revenue for Q2 is expected to be in the range of $7.5 billion to $8 billion. Core operating income is expected to be in the range of $375 million to $435 million. GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $312 million to $382 million. Core diluted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $2.27 to $2.67. GAAP diluted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $1.70 to $2.19. We expect second quarter net interest expense to be approximately $69 million and full year interest expense to be approximately $270 million.

The increase in interest expense next quarter reflects 2 key factors: first, additional debt associated with the anticipated acquisition of Hanley Energy Group, which we intend to fund through a combination of cash and new borrowings. And second, the anticipated refinancing of our existing senior notes maturing in April. Our core tax rate for Q2 and the full year is 21%. In closing, Q1 was a strong start to the year, and we carried good momentum into Q2. Our results reflect the strength of our diversified portfolio and the consistency of our execution. As we move through the balance of the year, we remain focused on margin expansion, capital efficiency and sustained cash generation. With that, I'll turn the call back to Mike, who will offer additional color on fiscal 2026 and our updated guidance.

Michael Meheryar Dastoor
CEO & Director

Thanks, Greg, and good morning, everyone. I'd like to begin by personally recognizing and thanking our global team for their extraordinary efforts they continue to deliver. I am extremely pleased with the strong start to fiscal 2026, which could not be accomplished without your focus, discipline and commitment to our customers. I see that dedication every day across our operations, and I am sincerely grateful for everything the Jabil team continues to deliver. As Greg outlined, the first quarter was better than expected in both revenue and core margin, which ultimately drove core EPS to the high end of our guidance range. And while AI continued to be the primary driver of growth, it was great to see all of our 3 segments contribute to our better-than-expected performance. In summary, our Q1 results, I believe, reinforce the strength of the strategy we laid out in September and the value of our diversified model. And more importantly, we now expect this momentum to continue throughout fiscal 2026 and beyond into fiscal 2027.

With that momentum as a backdrop, I'd now like to take a few minutes to walk through each of our segments for FY '26. Beginning with Intelligent Infrastructure, we're raising our fiscal 2027 outlook by approximately $900 million, driven by higher revenue in both Cloud & DCI as well as networking. Cloud & DCI is now expected to be up an incremental $600 million for the year to $9.8 billion. The stronger-than-expected outlook is primarily driven by recent program wins with our second hyperscale customer in Mexico and upside in our data center power business in Memphis. This also includes approximately $200 million associated with the Hanley Energy acquisition, which we expect to close in January. Hanley strengthens our capabilities in modular power distribution and energy systems for next-generation data centers.

This will diversify our racks and server business into verticals that extend beyond compute, including power, energy management and data center infrastructure services. In our capital equipment end market, demand has also remained very healthy and consistent with our expectations of year-on-year growth of 16%. We now expect our networking and comms end market to be up approximately $300 million for fiscal 2026 to $2.7 billion. This is supported by stronger demand for next-gen liquid-cooled platforms with meaningful demand increases in India as customers expand high-speed interconnects, including both Ethernet and Infiniband capacity to support the rapid growth in AI workloads. Altogether, we now expect AI-related revenue of approximately $12.1 billion in fiscal 2026, which represents approximately 35% year-over-year growth, up from 25% originally expected in September. The strength we're seeing here clearly validates our strategy.

By designing and delivering fully integrated systems that combine compute, networking, power distribution and advanced cooling, we materially shorten deployment time lines and reduce total cost for customers, precisely what is required as AI capacity scales. On a separate note, and as we discussed in September, we're in the process of retrofitting our East Coast rack and server factories to accommodate for liquid cooling. And these efforts remain slightly ahead of schedule, positioning Jabil very well for the second half of fiscal 2026 and into fiscal 2027. In Regulated Industries, fiscal 2026 is tracking above our September expectations by roughly $100 million, driven by better-than-expected results in renewables, although we remain cautious with our outlook for the year. Automotive continues to perform as expected, and we continue to focus on powertrain-agnostic solutions in next-gen vehicles.

Importantly, over the longer term, we remain well positioned in both renewables and automotive markets as the team has consolidated share with existing customers. In Healthcare, our business remains solid and aligned with our expectations for growth, supported by continued strength in drug delivery platforms, including GLP-1 and continuous glucose monitors as well as ongoing demand across diagnostics and minimally invasive technologies. Our pipeline remains healthy with good visibility into program ramps across drug delivery, chronic disease management and other regulated devices categories. Overall, we expect Healthcare will be a durable multiyear growth engine for Jabil. Putting it all together, we now expect our regulated segment to return to growth this year, representing nearly 40% of our revenue in fiscal 2026.

And finally, in Connected Living & Digital Commerce, our outlook is also ahead of our expectations at the beginning of the year as we now anticipate approximately $100 million in incremental revenue for the year, driven primarily by broad-based strength in automation, robotics and advanced retail warehouse programs. Altogether, we now expect CLDC to be down by roughly 11% year-over-year due to previously announced customer pruning in Connected Living, offset slightly by growth in Digital Commerce. Given the strength of Q1 and the visibility we have across the business, we're raising our full year guidance for revenue, core margins and core EPS. For fiscal 2026, we now expect revenue of approximately $32.4 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion from our prior outlook.

Importantly, we are also raising our margin expectations for the year. We now anticipate core operating margins of roughly 5.7%, a meaningful improvement of 10 basis points versus our earlier view. This improvement reflects strong mix, continued execution and the underlying leverage in our model. As a result of both higher revenue and higher margins, we now expect core diluted earnings per share of $11.55 for the year, an increase of $0.55 from our previous estimate. And we continue to expect adjusted free cash flow of more than $1.3 billion, consistent with the framework we outlined in September, which will allow us to continue to invest in future growth while continuing to return capital to shareholders. Across the company, our priorities remain the same: profitable growth, diversified mix, margin expansion, consistent cash generation and strong commitment to buybacks, which was evident in Q1.

This focus is driving momentum across the business, allowing us to navigate changing market conditions, deliver consistent results and steadily build long-term earnings power. To summarize, our first quarter results were better than expected, and fiscal 2026 is now tracking well above our initial expectations. What's notable to me about our higher FY '26 outlook is that it's broad-based. All 3 segments are contributing with Intelligent Infrastructure leading the way. As we move forward, we remain focused on driving long-term value for our shareholders. Before closing, I want to again thank our teams, customers and suppliers for their commitment and partnership. The consistency in our results is a direct reflection of their efforts, and I am grateful for the trust they continue to place in Jabil. I also want to wish everyone a safe and healthy holiday season and a happy New Year. With that, I'll turn the call over to Adam.

Adam Berry
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & Communications

Thanks, Mike. Operator, we're now ready for Q&A.

