JD.com, Inc. (JD) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 13, 2025 7:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Sean Shibiao Zhang - Director of Investor Relations
Xu Ran - CEO & Executive Director
Ian Su Shan - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Kenneth Fong - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Ronald Keung - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Alicis a Yap - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Thomas Chong - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and thank you for standing by for JD.com's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today's conference, Sean Zhang, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Sean Shibiao Zhang
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you. Good day, everyone. Welcome to JD.com's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call.

With us today are CEO of JD.com, Ms. Sandy Xu; and CFO, Mr. Ian Shan. Sandy will kick off the call with her opening remarks, and Ian will discuss the financial results. Then we'll open the call to questions from analysts.

Before turning the call over to Sandy, let me quickly cover the safe harbor. Please be reminded that during this call, our comments and responses to your questions reflect management's view as of today only and will include forward-looking statements. Please refer to our latest safe harbor statement in earnings press release on our IR website, which applies to this call.

We will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures in the earnings press release. Please also note all figures mentioned in this call today are in RMB, unless otherwise stated.

Now let me turn the call over to our CEO, Sandy. Sandy, please?

Xu Ran
CEO & Executive Director

Thank you, Sean. Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining our third quarter 2025 earnings conference call. We achieved a set of solid results across our strategic priorities during the third quarter and further enhanced our capabilities to drive better user experience, lower cost and higher efficiency. Our total revenues were up 15% year-on-year, sustaining our double-digit growth momentum. We are delighted to see growth of our general merchandise categories and marketplace and marketing revenue continue to accelerate sequentially. Both are becoming our important growth drivers.

Non-GAAP net profit came in at RMB 5.8 billion in the quarter with the core retail business margin continued to expand year-on-year. Our food delivery business also sustained healthy expansion while its loss narrowed in Q3 from the prior quarter as we continue to optimize operating efficiencies and improve unit economics.

Overall, our business are making good progress along our long-term strategic road map. We are confident that our core retail business will steadily expand market share with healthy margin improvement and new initiatives will create deeper synergies and drive healthier financial models, further strengthening our entire business ecosystem.

Among all the encouraging developments that underpin these results, I would like to point 3 most notable highlights for this quarter, which I believe should be the key takeaways from today's call. First, strong momentum in our user base and engagement. Our quarterly active customer number was up over 40% year-on-year in Q3, sustaining the momentum built in the previous quarters, thanks to both organic growth of JD Retail as well as contributions from our new businesses such as JD Food Delivery and Jingxi. The consistent growth has led to our annual active customers exceeding 700 million in October, making a new milestone in our user expansion.

In particular, the number of JD Plus members, our highest quality user group also recorded healthy growth in the quarter. In addition to user scale, user shopping frequency on our platform also increased by over 40% year-on-year in Q3, a pace we've sustained for 2 consecutive quarters.

Notably, we saw meaningful shopping frequency increase across all user groups, including new users, existing users and JD Plus members. This user momentum is clear proof that we have stayed very focused on providing a better user experience amid evolving user demand.

In return, our expanding and more active user pool further improves our engagement with users, deepens our user insights and enables us to better address their demand. This virtual cycle ultimately supports our sustainable growth in the long run.

Second, our core retail business remained strong in Q3. Retail revenues increased by 11% year-on-year in the quarter to RMB 251 billion. There were a mix of contributors to this. While the high base effect for electronics and home appliances category started to kick in, sales of general merchandise as well as marketplace and the marketing revenues continue to accelerate growth this quarter.

Profit wise, both JD Retail's gross margin and operating margin further expanded at a solid pace, demonstrating the continued scale benefits and operating efficiency gains of the business.

Looking at the main categories, the electronics and home appliances category has been faced with a high base since the second half of Q3, which has been weighing on its growth momentum. This is an industry-wide challenge and we are working closely with brands and manufacturers to navigate through it. For example, we've been leveraging our market and user insights to support brands and manufacturers in developing new and customized product models. Meanwhile, we continue to lower the cost for brands and strive to secure the best prices for our customers. Thanks to our supply chain capabilities. Although the high base effect is expected to linger the near term, it's clear that the advantages of our business model and market position in these categories remain intact, and we are confident in building on these strengths, to unlock new growth potential in this market.

General merchandise category recorded 19% year-on-year revenue growth in Q3, an impressive acceleration from a quarter ago. Within this category, revenues from supermarket, fashion and health categories maintained double-digit year-on-year growth in the quarter. The strong tailwind is expected to sustain into Q4. This is a result of our efforts in enhancing our product portfolio, price competitiveness and service quality, which eventually translates to better user experience and stronger user main share.

As we continue to tap into the huge market potential, we believe general merchandise will play a bigger role in supporting JD Retail's long-term growth.

In addition to healthier category mix, another bright spot in our Q3 performance was marketplace and marketing revenues which, at the group level, grew 24% year-on-year in the quarter. It has remained on a double-digit growth trajectory for 4 consecutive quarters. In particular, growth of our advertising revenues has accelerated sequentially in every quarter this year and exceeded 20% year-on-year in Q3. This strong momentum mainly stems from the accelerated ad revenues generated by core JD Retail business.

Our improved ecosystem for both 1P business and 3P merchants, fighter AI-powered ad tools and improved traffic allocation efficiency all have contributed to the strong trend. As we move into Q4, we expect marketplace and marketing revenues to continue the healthy growth. Our platform ecosystem is taking good shape and gaining positive traction with suppliers and merchants, large and small.

The third highlight I want to share is our new businesses. Within the segment, JD Food Delivery continued to make healthy progress in Q3. It's GMV achieved double-digit quarter-on-quarter growth in the quarter driven by both order volume growth and a healthier order mix with high-value orders contributing a vast majority of total orders. While scaling up the food delivery business also narrowed operating loss sequentially in Q3, thanks to the improving UE performance. This encouraging progress is achieved through our enriched supplies, increased operating efficiency, disciplined investment made a competitive market and our efforts to expand food delivery revenue streams.

More importantly, food delivery continued to generate strong synergies with our retail business. In addition to user growth and engagement, the cohort cumulative cross-selling rate has been on an upward trend. Products from our supermarket electronic accessories and Jingxi categories remained the biggest beneficiaries of this trend.

Going forward, we will focus on further growing the food delivery business scale, UE optimization and unlocking stronger synergies with retail, logistics and other businesses across our ecosystem. Other new businesses, including both Jingxi and international business are progressing well as planned. Jingxi further penetrated into the lower-tier markets and grew its merchant and user base. Our international retail business is gradually establishing capabilities in the U.K. from Germany and Benelux regions, paving the way for our global expansion, both are making solid steps in executing on their long-term strategies.

One more thing before I wrap up. We unveiled our AI road map during the 2025 JD Discovery Conference in September. I want to share a few exciting updates here. First, we launched a number of new AI products at the event, including TaTaTa, an all-purpose digital human assistant app and JoyInside, an AI agent for robots, toys, devices, among others.

Second, we introduced the industry specific AI applications across 4 sectors of retail, health care, logistics and Industrial.

Third, we also made upgrades to a few of our retail technology infrastructure, such as JD Streamer, our new digital human technology that provides e-commerce live streaming and short video production solutions. JoyStreamer has served over 40,000 brands so far with significantly lower cost and better sales performance compared to real human live streaming costs.

In addition, we provide 24/7 nonstop AI customer service which handled over 4.2 billion inquiries during our 11.11 Grand Promotion. We are excited about the potential of these AI applications as we foster a comprehensive AI ecosystem spanning across various industries.

To conclude, Q3 was a productive quarter with all our business lines moving ahead steadily on our strategic road map. The user momentum on our platform was strong. Our core retail business is in solid shape with multiple complementary long-term growth drivers and great potential for long-term margin improvement. Beyond core retail new businesses, including food delivery, Jingxi and our international retail business are on track for healthy development, both financially and operationally. Taken together, our businesses are operating in synergy, bolstering our conviction in the path ahead, we see great opportunities to further unlock the collaborative value of our business ecosystem and to position us well for sustainable, high-quality growth.

With that, now let me turn the call over to Ian.

Ian Su Shan
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Sandy. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining the call today. In the third quarter, we recorded a set of healthy performance across our business lines. Our total revenues were up 15% year-on-year, outpacing the growth of MBS total retail sales. This was supported by double-digit revenue growth in our core retail business.

Despite the high base for electronics and home appliances, general merchandise and service revenues both delivered stronger growth in Q3 and recorded their fastest pace since the second quarter 2023. In terms of profit, JD Retail achieved strong year-on-year expansion in both gross and operating margins in the quarter. And our food delivery business also saw a sequential reduction in investments scale. Overall, our business are moving in the right direction, and we are at a stronger position to drive sustainable growth for the long term.

Now let's go through our financial results in the third quarter. Total net revenues increased by a solid 15% year-on-year to RMB 299 billion in Q3. Breaking down the mix. Product revenues were up 10% year-on-year in Q3. Revenues of electronics and home appliances were up 5% decelerating from last quarter due to the high base effect created by the trading program. This is in line with our expectations and we are confident that -- we are positioned to further solidify our leading market position as we leverage our supply chain advantages and stay focused on enhancing user experience, reducing costs and improving efficiency.

Revenues of general merchandise were up 19% year-on-year in the quarter, a notable highlight of our Q3 performance. Growth in general merchandise has sustained double-digit growth for 4 consecutive quarters and further accelerated from the previous quarter. Within general merchandising, both supermarkets and fashion categories saw growth rate surpassing mid-teens in Q3. The results were mainly driven by our continuous efforts to enhance our operational capabilities, build up better user experience and mind share, alongside our growing market share. This gives us the confidence that the strong momentum in our general merchandise categories will continue going forward as we capture the huge potential in this market.

Service revenues were up 31% year-on-year in Q3, a solid acceleration compared to previous quarters. Notably, marketplace and marketing revenues increased 24% year-on-year, accelerating sequentially every quarter for 7 quarters in a row.

Within this line, advertising revenues continue to see robust growth, mainly driven by the notable improvement of user engagement and better advertising tools that we provide for both suppliers and merchants at our core retail business.

This demonstrates our more robust ecosystem and the strong growth in the number of merchants and users on our platform. We expect marketplace and marketing revenues to continue solid growth in Q4, contributing to both our top line growth and margin performance. Logistics and other service revenues grew 35% year-on-year in Q3, mainly driven by the incremental delivery revenues from food delivery business.

Now let's turn to our segment performance. JD Retail revenues were up 11% year-on-year in Q3. Our core retail business has built multiple growth drivers and we believe growth of the general merchandise category and value-added services, including advertising will be important pillars in retail's long-term growth.

JD Retail also saw healthy progress in margin expansion in the quarter. This gross margin has sustained year-on-year expansion for 14 quarters in a row and was up 1.3 percentage points to 19.3% in Q3. This was driven by a favorable mix shift towards higher-margin business, along with optimized procurement costs by leveraging our scale effect and supply chain advantages.

In addition, in Q3, JD Retail's non-GAAP operating income was up 28% year-on-year to RMB 14.8 billion, and operating margin was up 76 bps to 5.9%, both continuing strong momentum.

Moving to JD Logistics. The logistics revenues were up 24% year-on-year in Q3. Both internal and external revenues grew at a steady pace. And JD Logistics also saw incremental delivery service revenues generated by food delivery business.

In terms of profit, JD Logistics non-GAAP operating income was compressed 39% year-on-year to RMB 1.3 billion in the quarter as it continued to invest in customer experience, service capabilities and technology to enhance the efficiency of the entire logistics process. These efforts aim to boost JD Logistics competitiveness in products and services and strengthen its market position, which over time, will translate into sustainable margin expansion.

Our net new business generated RMB 15.6 billion in revenues, a steady growth compared to last quarter. This was driven by the continued expansion of our food delivery, Jingxy an international business. Non-GAAP operating loss of new business slightly widened sequentially to RMB 15.7 billion. To break this down, food delivery saw a sequential reduction in its investment in Q3. Our food delivery business continues to scale with a healthier financial model with expanded revenue streams, disciplined spending in users and increased operating efficiency.

As to other new business, both Jingxy and international business increased investments compared to a quarter ago. They're in a rapid development stage and are important pillars in JD's long-term strategies. Going forward, we will continue to scale up the new business and further unlock synergies to set the stage for our future growth. At the same time, we are committed to improving UE performance and aim to drive healthy and sustainable bottom line growth in the long run.

For our consolidated profit performance in Q3, our gross profit was up 12% year-on-year to RMB 50 billion. And gross margin was 17%, slightly reduced by 0.4 percentage points. This was primarily due to margin dilution from the food delivery business and JD Logistics, which offset JD Retail's solid gross margin expansion in the quarter.

Consolidated non-GAAP net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB 5.8 billion in Q3, and non-GAAP net margin was 1.9%, both down year-on-year. This near-term headwinds in profit mainly reflect our investments in food delivery. Our last 12 months free cash flow as of the end of Q3 was RMB 13 billion compared to RMB 34 billion in the same period last year. This was primarily due to cash outflows associated with the trading program. and the decline in operating income. By the end of the third quarter, our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments totaled RMB 211 billion.

In summary, we're encouraged by the solid progress in both core retail and new business. Retail has built a growth metric with multiple drivers and a clear path to our long-term margin target. Food delivery is growing with a healthier financial model and other new business, including lower tier market and international business are also making solid steps to the next chapter. All our businesses are on the right track, starting to generate notable synergies with 1 another and collectively contributing to our high-quality development in the long term.

With that, I will turn it back to Sean. Thank you.

Sean Shibiao Zhang
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Sandy and Ian. For the Q&A session, you're welcome to ask questions in English or Chinese, and our management will answer the question in Chinese, will provide English translation for convenience purpose only. In case of any discrepancy, please refer to our management statement in the original language. Operator, we'll open the call for a Q&A session now.