Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 21, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Darren Snellgrove - Vice President of Investor Relations
Joaquin Duato - CEO & Chairman
Joseph Wolk - Executive VP & CFO
Tim Schmid - Executive VP & Worldwide Chairman of MedTech
Jennifer Taubert - Executive VP & Worldwide Chairman of Innovative Medicine
John Reed - Executive Vice President of Innovative Medicine and R&D

Conference Call Participants

Asad Haider - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Larry Biegelsen - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Christopher Schott - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Joanne Wuensch - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Terence Flynn - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Danielle Antalffy - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Vamil Divan - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Shagun Singh Chadha - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Alexandria Hammond - Wolfe Research, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to Johnson & Johnson's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions].

I will now turn the conference call over to Johnson & Johnson. You may begin.

Darren Snellgrove
Vice President of Investor Relations

Hello, everyone. This is Darren Snellgrove, Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson & Johnson. Welcome to our company's review of business results for the fourth quarter and full year 2025 and our financial outlook for 2026.

First, a few logistics. As a reminder, today's presentation and associated schedules are available on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson & Johnson website at investor.jnj.com. Please note that this presentation contains forward-looking statements regarding, among other things, the company's future operating and financial performance, market position, and business strategy. You are cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements, which are based on the current expectations of future events using the information available as of the date of this recording, and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected.

The description of these risks, uncertainties and other factors can be found in our SEC filings, including our 2024 Form 10-K, which is available at investor.jnj.com and on the SEC's website. Additionally, several of the products and compounds discussed today are being developed in collaboration with strategic partners or licensed from other companies. This slide acknowledges those relationships.

Moving to today's agenda. Joaquin Duato, our Chairman and CEO, will discuss our business performance and growth drivers. I will then review the fourth quarter sales and P&L results as well as full year 2025 results for the enterprise. Joe Wolk, our CFO, will then close by sharing an overview of our cash position, capital allocation priorities and guidance for 2026, as well as key milestones and qualitative considerations for 2026. Jennifer Taubert, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman, Innovative Medicine; John Reed, Executive Vice President, Innovative Medicine Research & Development; and Tim Schmid, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman, MedTech, will be joining us for Q&A.

To ensure we provide enough time to address your questions, we anticipate the webcast will last up to 75 minutes. With that, I will now turn the call over to Joaquin.

Joaquin Duato
CEO & Chairman

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. I'm excited to discuss our very strong full year results. We said 2025 would be a catapult year for Johnson & Johnson, and that's exactly what it was. It was a year that launched us into a new era of accelerated growth. Fueled by the strongest portfolio and pipeline in our history, Johnson & Johnson today has a leading and expanding position in each of our 6 key businesses: Oncology, Immunology, Neuroscience, Cardiovascular, Surgery, and Vision. In each of these areas, we have multiple differentiated assets to drive growth and a strong competitive advantage, which you can see in the success of our recent launches.

In recent years, we have increased our focus on areas of high growth and high unmet need, and we will continue this transformation with the planned separation of our Orthopaedics business. In 2025, we invested over $32 billion in R&D and M&A, including the acquisitions of Intra-Cellular Therapies and Halda Therapeutics. We also initiated billions of dollars in new state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities in the U.S., which will accelerate delivery of our next wave of innovation. These moves fuel our confidence that growth in 2026 will be faster than in 2025, and we have line of sight to double-digit growth by the end of the decade, which is notable as Johnson & Johnson is the only health care company that will soon deliver more than $100 billion in annual revenue.

How is that possible? It's possible because we have tremendous strength and depth, both in Innovative Medicine and in MedTech. We are different from other companies. We are not focused on 1 or 2 growth drivers. In fact, we now have 28 platforms or products that generate at least $1 billion of revenue annually, and that makes our growth more sustainable. This, together with our strong balance sheet and free cash flow, creates the resilience and durability that will power our future.

Turning to our results. Over the full year, we delivered 5.3% operational sales growth. The strength of our commercial execution and relentless focus on innovation drove strong momentum throughout the year, firmly placing the STELARA LOE in the rearview mirror.

In Innovative Medicine, we reported operational sales growth for the year of 5.3%. Full year sales for our Pharmaceutical business exceeded $60 billion for the first time with 13 brands growing double digits. The foundation for these results and for the acceleration we see ahead is our unrivaled portfolio and pipeline. In 2025 alone, we secured 51 approvals and filed 32 submissions across major markets. We delivered positive readouts from 17 key studies and initiated 11 new Phase III programs. These milestones are not just numbers. They are the seeds of our best-in-class medicines that are improving and extending lives.

Let me now talk about our key areas of focus. In Oncology, we are working to cure cancer and our depth of expertise is unmatched. In 2025, we delivered 21% operational sales growth, and we expect to exceed $50 billion in annual sales by 2030. We are the #1 company in multiple myeloma, where 80% of patients are treated with at least 1 of our 4 medicines over their treatment journey. DARZALEX is the largest medicine by sales in our pharmaceutical portfolio and is considered the foundational gold standard treatment in multiple myeloma. With annual sales over $14 billion, DARZALEX grew an impressive 22% across the full year.

CARVYKTI is the leading CAR-T cell therapy in multiple myeloma with more than 10,000 patients now treated across 14 markets, and we are not stopping there. Last month, we published unprecedented results for TECVAYLI plus DARZALEX that showed reduced risk of progression or death by 83% in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma as early as the second line. We also recently announced top-line findings from a second Phase III study, MajesTEC-9, which showed TECVAYLI monotherapy reduced the risk of disease progression or death as early as first relapse in patients with multiple myeloma who are predominantly refractory to anti-CD38 and lenalidomide therapies.

We are also seeing significant momentum in our solid tumor portfolio. In Q4, we received FDA approval for RYBREVANT FASPRO as the first subcutaneous therapy for EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer, reducing administration time from hours to minutes and improving patient experience. We are making strong progress in bladder cancer with the introduction of INLEXZO, our novel drug releasing system, which received its initial FDA approval in September. This is a revolutionary treatment that offers a life-changing alternative for patients who otherwise would have lost their bladders to radical surgery. Future approvals addressing larger patient populations are anticipated. And our Q4 acquisition of Halda Therapeutics added a promising clinical stage treatment for prostate cancer with potential across multiple tumor types.

In Immunology, we are focused on transforming the standard of care by increasing remission rates in immune-mediated disease. In 2025, TREMFYA became the first and only IL-23 inhibitor with a fully subcutaneous treatment regimen for both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. It is now the fastest-growing IL-23 therapy in the U.S., delivering Q4 operational sales growth of 75%, and 65% worldwide. And with global full year sales of TREMFYA accelerating to more than $5 billion for the first time, we are increasingly confident that TREMFYA will exceed $10 billion in peak year sales.

But in health care, leadership means continually raising the bar, which is why we are focused on what's next in immunology. In the coming months, we look forward to the anticipated U.S. approval of icotrokinra, to be marketed as ICOTYDE, which will expand our immunology innovation beyond injectable medicines. We believe ICOTYDE positions Johnson & Johnson to lead the next wave of treatment for psoriasis and inflammatory bowel disease.

Turning to Neuroscience, where 2025 operational sales grew 10%. SPRAVATO continues its strong trajectory with 57% growth in the year and more than 200,000 patients now treated worldwide. In November, we solidified our leadership with the U.S. launch of CAPLYTA for adjunctive major depressive disorder, further strengthening our confidence in its $5 billion peak year sales potential.

Now turning to MedTech, where operational sales for the year grew 5.4%. In 2025, we delivered nearly $34 billion in sales with strong performance in Cardiovascular and accelerating momentum across Surgery and Vision. Our success over the last year was supported by 15 major launches and more than 40 regulatory approvals in major markets. And with more than 60 active clinical trials, we have significant momentum going into 2026.

Johnson & Johnson today is a leader in 3 Cardiovascular segments with the portfolio delivering 15% operational sales growth in the year. Abiomed and Shockwave performed particularly well, delivering operational growth of approximately 18% and 23% in the quarter. We remain the market leader in electrophysiology, and we plan to expand our position in pulsed-field ablation. VARIPULSE has now been used to treat nearly 40,000 atrial fibrillation patients globally, and we look forward to submitting our Dual Energy THERMOCOOL SMARTTOUCH SF Catheter for use in the U.S. market in 2026. We are also seeing positive data for our OMNYPULSE Catheter, which has the potential to further redefine pulsed-field ablation. In fact, we anticipate launching a new catheter every year through the end of the decade as we build an industry-leading portfolio in PFA, complemented by at least 2 CARTO updates each year.

In Surgery, we are reinventing procedures through robotics and digital. This year, we will launch a first-of-its-kind robotics platform for Urology with MONARCH. The technology was first to market in bronchoscopy, helping diagnose and treat lung cancer. And this year, we'll create another first with MONARCH becoming the only robotic endoluminal and percutaneous platform for the treatment of kidney stones and other renal conditions. We also recently announced the FDA de novo submission of our OTTAVA robotic surgery system. And with continued innovation in surgical instrumentation, including our recent launch of the ETHICON 4000 stapler, we anticipate continued growth as we reduce complications and elevate the surgical experience across specialties.

And finally, Vision, which delivered robust annual operational sales growth of 5.3% with particularly strong momentum in surgical vision. In 2025, we launched ACUVUE OASYS MAX disposable lenses for astigmatism and presbyopia and completed the full market release of TECNIS Odyssey IOL, which is the fastest-growing intraocular lens in the U.S. Looking ahead, we are planning to launch TECNIS PureSee in the U.S. later this year.

As you can tell, we are starting the year from a position of strength. You have heard me talk about the unmatched depth and strength of our business. In 2026, that will translate into accelerated growth and impact with game-changing innovation reaching more patients more quickly than ever before.

I will now turn the call back over to Darren.

Darren Snellgrove
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Joaquin. Moving to our financial results. Unless otherwise stated, the percentages quoted represent operational results and therefore, exclude the impact of currency translation. Starting with Q4 2025 sales results. Worldwide sales were $24.6 billion for the quarter. Sales increased 7.1% despite an approximate 650 basis point headwind from STELARA. Growth in the U.S. was 7.5%, and 6.6% outside of the U.S. Acquisitions and divestitures had a net positive impact on worldwide growth of 100 basis points, primarily driven by the Intra-Cellular acquisition.

Turning now to earnings. For the quarter, net earnings were $5.1 billion and diluted earnings per share was $2.10 versus $1.41 a year ago. Adjusted net earnings for the quarter were $6 billion and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.46, representing an increase of 21.5% and 20.6%, respectively, compared to the fourth quarter of 2024. Items of note include a $0.22 IPR&D charge associated with the V-Wave acquisition in 2024 and $0.10 of dilution due to the acquisition of Halda Therapeutics in 2025.

For the full year 2025, worldwide sales were $94.2 billion, Sales increased 5.3% despite an approximate 620 basis point headwind from STELARA. And if you do the math, Johnson & Johnson grew double digits for the full year, excluding STELARA. Growth in the U.S. was 6.9% and 3.4% outside the U.S. Acquisitions and divestitures had a net positive impact on worldwide growth of 110 basis points, primarily driven by the Intra-Cellular and Shockwave acquisitions.

Turning now to earnings. Net earnings for full year 2025 were $26.8 billion and diluted earnings per share was $11.03, including the $7 billion talc reserve reversal from Q1. This compares to diluted earnings per share of $5.79 a year ago, which included $0.67 of dilution due to acquired IPR&D charges on various transactions. Full year 2025 adjusted net earnings were $26.2 billion and adjusted diluted earnings per share was $10.79, both representing an increase of 8.1% compared to full year 2024.

I will now comment on business sales performance in the quarter, focusing on the 6 key areas where meaningful innovation is driving our performance and fueling our long-term growth. Beginning with Innovative Medicine. Worldwide sales of $15.8 billion, increased 7.9% despite an approximate 1,110 basis point headwind from STELARA, illustrating the continued strength of our key brands and new launches. Growth both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S. was 7.9%. Acquisition and divestitures had a net positive impact of 170 basis points on worldwide growth, primarily due to the Intra-Cellular acquisition.

In Oncology, starting with multiple myeloma, DARZALEX growth was 24.1%, primarily driven by strong share gains of 6.5 points across all lines of therapy and nearly 12 points in the frontline setting as well as inventory dynamics and market growth. CARVYKTI achieved sales of $555 million with growth of 63.2%, driven by share gains and site expansion. TECVAYLI and TALVEY growth was 18.9% and 73.1%, respectively, driven by continued expansion in the community setting. In prostate cancer, ERLEADA delivered strong growth of 18% due to market growth and continued share gains, partially offset by the impact of Part D redesign. In lung cancer, RYBREVANT plus LAZCLUZE delivered sales of $216 million and growth of 76.5%, driven by continued launch uptake in all regions. We continue to see share gains in both first and second lines of therapy.

Within Immunology, TREMFYA delivered remarkable growth of 65.4%. We continue to see share gains across all indications with particularly strong momentum from our IBD launch as well as market growth. STELARA declined 48.6%, driven by share loss due to biosimilar competition and Part D redesign.

In Neuroscience, SPRAVATO grew an impressive 67.8%, driven by continued strong demand from physicians and patients. CAPLYTA, which was acquired in Q2 as part of the Intra-Cellular acquisition, delivered sales of $249 million for the quarter. Since aMDD approval in the U.S., CAPLYTA has had its highest ever new patient start volumes across all indications.

Now moving to MedTech. Worldwide sales of $8.8 billion increased 5.8% with growth of 6.6% in the U.S. and 4.9% outside of the U.S., driven by strong performance in our 3 focus areas: Cardiovascular, Surgery and Vision. Acquisitions and divestitures had a net negative impact of 10 basis points on worldwide growth. In Cardiovascular, electrophysiology delivered growth of 6.5%, driven by procedure growth within our comprehensive portfolio, commercial execution as well as VARIPULSE and other new products, partially offset by competitive pressures in PFA.

Abiomed delivered growth of 18.3% with continued strong adoption of Impella technology. Shockwave delivered strong double-digit growth of 22.9%, driven by continued adoption of coronary and peripheral products, becoming our 13th billion dollar MedTech platform.

Surgery grew 3.7% despite divestitures negatively impacting results by approximately 60 basis points. Growth was driven by accelerated launches of new products in biosurgery, technology penetration in wound closure and strong commercial execution, partially offset by competitive pressures in energy and endocutters as well as VBP in China across the portfolio.

In Vision, contact lenses and other products grew 5.3%, driven by category growth, strong performance in the ACUVUE OASYS 1-Day Family products and continued strategic price actions, further solidifying our leadership position. Surgical Vision grew 10.8%, driven by new product innovations, robust demand for premium IOLs and strong commercial execution.

Orthopaedics growth this quarter continued to gain momentum and increased to 3.5%, primarily driven by new product launches and strong commercial execution, partially offset by the Orthopaedics transformation and VBP in China.

Now turning to our consolidated statement of earnings for the fourth quarter of 2025. I'd like to highlight a few noteworthy items that have changed compared to the same quarter of last year. Cost of goods sold deleveraged by 80 basis points, driven by unfavorable product mix in Innovative Medicine and the impact of tariffs in MedTech. This was partially offset by the onetime prior year fair value inventory step-up associated with the Shockwave acquisition.

Selling, marketing and administrative expense leveraged by 110 basis points, driven by lower administrative expense across the enterprise. Research and development leveraged by 620 basis points, primarily driven by prior year acquired IPR&D expense from the V-Wave acquisition in MedTech as well as pipeline investment timing in Innovative Medicine.

Interest income and expense was a net income of $23 million as compared to $144 million of income in the fourth quarter of 2024. The decrease in income was primarily driven by a higher average debt balance. Other income and expense was a net expense of $483 million as compared to $161 million of income in the fourth quarter of 2024. This increase in net expense was driven by higher litigation costs of $0.9 billion, primarily related to the Auris shareholder resolution and a $0.2 billion non-recurring charge related to Halda employee equity awards. This was partially offset by a $0.3 billion contingent value right reduction associated with the Abiomed acquisition.

Tax rate on a GAAP basis in the fourth quarter of 2025 was a benefit of 3% compared to an 11.7% cost in the fourth quarter of 2024. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily driven by a non-recurring tax benefit related to a loss on certain international subsidiaries. More information can be found in the company's forthcoming Form 10-K.

Lastly, I'll direct your attention to the box section of the slide, where we have also provided our income before tax, net earnings and earnings per share adjusted to exclude the impact of intangible amortization expense and special items.

Now let's look at adjusted income before tax by segment for the quarter. Innovative Medicine margin improved from 32.5% to 36.3%, primarily driven by administrative expense leveraging and phasing of R&D expense, partially offset by unfavorable mix in the cost of products sold. MedTech margin improved from 10.8% to 17.4%, primarily driven by prior year acquired IPR&D expense from the V-Wave acquisition, partially offset by the impact of tariffs and cost of products sold. As a result, adjusted income before tax for the enterprise as a percentage of sales increased from 24.1% to 28.7%.

This concludes the sales and earnings portion of the call, and I will now turn the call over to Joe.

Joseph Wolk
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Darren. Hello, everyone. We appreciate you joining us today. As you've heard from Joaquin and Darren, the employees of Johnson & Johnson delivered impressive results in 2025, driven by strong execution, important new launches and significant pipeline progress that launched a new era of accelerated growth. Our performance demonstrates the depth and strength of Johnson & Johnson's business centered on 6 core areas: Oncology, Immunology and Neuroscience in Innovative Medicine; and Cardiovascular, Surgery and Vision in MedTech. This has enabled us to exceed financial expectations that existed at the beginning of 2025 on both the top and bottom line. We enter 2026 with powerful momentum and anticipate another solid year ahead.

Let me briefly address yesterday's Daubert rulings in the talc MDL. The special master correctly decided to exclude the opinions of certain plaintiffs' experts who propounded junk science. In other parts of the ruling, the court did not uphold its proper gatekeeping duty with respect to the reliability of plaintiffs' experts' opinions, and we will appeal. The decision only serves to bolster our overall litigation strategy. We will continue to defend against these meritless claims at trial and through the appeals courts where we have largely prevailed.

Before we move into 2026 guidance, let's address cash and capital allocation. We ended 2025 with approximately $20 billion of cash and marketable securities and $48 billion of debt for a net debt position of approximately $28 billion. The company generated $19.7 billion of free cash flow during 2025, on par with 2024, despite increased capital investment in the U.S. and the impact of tariffs. Our financial strength is a competitive advantage that allows us to both invest in our future and return value to our shareholders. As we move forward in 2026, we expect to elevate free cash flow generation to approximately $21 billion. As it relates to the separation of our Orthopaedics business, we are making good progress towards a mid-2027 separation and look forward to providing updates later this year.

Turning now to guidance for the full year 2026. We anticipate operational sales growth in the range of 5.7% to 6.7% with a midpoint of $100 billion or 6.2%. Acquisitions and divestitures are expected to favorably impact operational growth by approximately 30 basis points, resulting in an adjusted operational sales growth midpoint of 5.9%. We do benefit in 2026 as our financial calendar includes a 53rd week, which is worth approximately 100 basis points.

As you know, we do not speculate on future currency movements. And last quarter, we utilized the euro spot rate relative to the U.S. dollar of $1.17. As of last week, the U.S. dollar has stayed relatively flat to the euro spot rate. And as a result, we expect reported sales growth between 6.2% to 7.2% with a midpoint of $100.5 billion or 6.7%. 2026 sales growth across our Innovative Medicine business will be driven by TREMFYA, DARZALEX, CARVYKTI, ERLEADA and SPRAVATO, as well as new launches of RYBREVANT plus LAZCLUZE in lung cancer, and CAPLYTA as adjunctive therapy for major depressive disorder. In MedTech, we expect growth to be driven by continued uptake and market expansion of new product launches across our Cardiovascular, Surgery and Vision portfolios, including VARIPULSE in Electrophysiology, ETHICON 4000 in Surgery, and the OASYS MAX family in Vision.

Turning next to other items on the P&L. In 2026, we expect to drive continued operating efficiencies, the majority of which we plan to invest in our business to power our new product launches and pipeline with heavier investment at the outset of the year. Despite that increased investment, we are planning for our 2026 adjusted pretax operating margin to improve by at least 50 basis points.

Our pretax operating margin guidance takes into account the costs from the 53rd week of operations and full year MedTech tariffs of approximately $500 million, which is significantly above the 2025 amount. It also includes the impact of the recently announced voluntary agreement with the U.S. government to improve access to medicines and lower costs to U.S. patients. We expect net interest expense between $300 million and $400 million. We anticipate net other income to be $1 billion to $1.2 billion for 2026, relatively flat to last year. Finally, we are projecting an effective tax rate in the range of 17.5% to 18.5%, with the increase largely due to a mix change with income in higher tax jurisdictions.

Turning to adjusted operational earnings per share. We expect growth of 5.5% at the midpoint for a range of $11.28 to $11.48. By utilizing the exchange rate we mentioned earlier, for our reported adjusted earnings per share for the year, we estimate a positive impact of $0.15. As such, we expect reported adjusted earnings per share of $11.53 at the midpoint.

Regarding our share count, due to the rapid share price appreciation in the second half of 2025 into early 2026, our diluted share count is increasing to approximately 2.44 billion shares based on U.S. GAAP accounting rules for the diluted share count calculation, in line with how the fourth quarter of 2025 landed. The incremental dilutive shares for next year are worth slightly more than $0.05 headwind versus 2025. Relative to current analyst expectations, our EPS and margin outlooks absorb the previously referenced incremental tariffs, the impact of the voluntary U.S. government agreement and a higher share count.

We will now shift to some 2026 phasing considerations to help inform your modeling. We are well positioned to build upon our accomplishments in 2025, continuing to make advancements across our Innovative Medicine and MedTech portfolio and pipeline. We anticipate fairly consistent operational sales growth throughout the year with a higher fourth quarter due to the benefit from the 53rd week referenced earlier.

Regarding Innovative Medicine, we expect a more pronounced impact from newly launched products throughout the year. We anticipate STELARA to continue to follow the HUMIRA erosion curve, which accelerated as we moved through the second half of 2025 compared to the start. While not nearly as impactful as STELARA, we do anticipate generic impact for both SIMPONI and OPSUMIT to begin in 2026, both of which are contemplated in our full year guidance.

In MedTech, we will continue to accelerate our newly launched products and expect normalized seasonality. The surgery transformation progress will accelerate throughout the year, and we anticipate some additional rounds of volume-based procurement in China, all of which has been incorporated into our 2026 guidance.

Regarding the P&L, it is important to consider onetime items that impacted our EPS results in 2025. Specifically, in Q1 2025, the impact from STELARA biosimilars was less pronounced given that the erosion accelerated starting in Q2. The Intra-Cellular acquisition anniversaries in Q2, and tariffs will be relatively linear in 2026, unlike last year where the P&L cost was largely recorded in Q4 2025. Given these factors, we expect higher earnings per share growth in the second half of the year versus the first half.

We are excited about how our pipeline is anticipated to advance in 2026. For example, in Innovative Medicine, we expect regulatory approvals for ICOTYDE in psoriasis, TECVAYLI in combination with DARZALEX in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma as early as second line, and TREMFYA for the inhibition of structural joint damage for patients with psoriatic arthritis. As this chart indicates, we also have many important regulatory submissions and data presentations across Oncology, Immunology and Neuroscience.

In MedTech, we anticipate the following approvals and regulatory submissions: OTTAVA Robotic Surgical System, ETHIZIA in Biosurgery, and the Dual Energy THERMOCOOL SMARTTOUCH SF Catheter in the U.S. Here, too, we are also excited for new launches and continued expansion of new products as seen in the chart.

To close the prepared remarks, I hope it's evident that Johnson & Johnson is entering 2026 with significant momentum. We are positioned to lead where health care is going, to tackle areas of critical unmet need. Our strong financial position enables us to invest in our business and the next generation of scientific breakthroughs that will help improve patient outcomes, while simultaneously delivering value for our shareholders. None of this would be possible without the hard work and dedication of our incredible colleagues worldwide who always keep patients at the center of everything we do.

With that, we are happy to take your questions. So I will now turn it to Kevin to provide instructions for those seeking to participate in the Q&A.

