Johnson Outdoors Inc. (JOUT) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 12, 2025 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Patricia Penman - Vice President of Marketing Services & Global Communication
Helen Johnson-Leipold - Chairman & CEO
David Johnson - CFO & VP

Conference Call Participants

Anthony Lebiedzinski - Sidoti & Company, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Hello, everyone, and welcome to the Johnson Outdoors' Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call will be led by Helen Johnson-Leipold, Johnson Outdoors Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Also on the call is David Johnson, Chief Financial Officer. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded. Your participation implies consent to our recording this call. If you do not agree to these terms, simply drop off the call.

I would now like to turn the call over to Pat Penman from Johnson Outdoors. Please go ahead, Ms. Penman.

Patricia Penman
Vice President of Marketing Services & Global Communication

Good morning, and thank you for joining us for our discussion of Johnson Outdoors results for the 2025 fiscal fourth quarter. If you need a copy of today's news release, it is available on our website at johnsonoutdoors.com under Investor Relations. I also need to remind you that this conference may contain forward-looking statements. These statements are made on the basis of our current views and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual events may differ materially from those statements due to a number of factors, many beyond Johnson Outdoors' control. These risks and uncertainties include those listed in our press release and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If you have additional questions following the call, please contact Dave Johnson or myself.

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Helen Johnson-Leipold.

Helen Johnson-Leipold
Chairman & CEO

Thanks, Pat. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us. I'll begin by sharing perspective on our fiscal 2025 performance as well as an update on the strategic priorities for our businesses. Dave will review the financial highlights, and then we'll take your questions.

After a slow start to the beginning of the year, new product successes drove double-digit growth in the second half of the year, resulting in a solid finish to fiscal 2025. Total company sales for the full fiscal year were flat compared to the prior year. Although we still have a lot of work to do to get our profitability where it needs to be, our operating loss of $16.2 million improved compared to fiscal 2024. While the marketplace is still uncertain, we feel good about the momentum we're seeing and the execution of our plans to accelerate the growth of our business and brands.

In fishing, demand exceeded expectations for Humminbird's new XPLORE Series and MEGA Live 2 fishfinders. In addition to XPLORE winning best in category marine electronics honors at ICAST this summer, we were also honored to recently receive the Anglers' Choice Award. This is a meaningful award because consumers themselves directly vote for their favorite new fishing product. As always, we're focused on finding out what anglers want and need and then turning those insights into cutting-edge technologies to give them the best fishing experiences possible. We will continue to invest in being an innovation leader to drive future growth.

In our Camping and Watercraft business, sales declined for fiscal 2025, driven primarily by the closeout of Eureka! inventory in 2024 after we exited that brand. Excluding the impact of Eureka! sales in the prior year, this segment grew by 2%. Demand for JetBoil's new fast boil cooking systems continued to outpace expectations. And Old Town's fishing kayak line is doing well in a watercraft marketplace that overall is still struggling. Both Old Town and Jetboil remain strong leaders in their markets, and we are committed to the long-term opportunity in these 2 brands.

In Diving, sales were up for the fiscal year due to modest improvements in certain regional markets. While we continue to work on integrating the acquisition of a long-time supplier during the fiscal year, we also focused our efforts on innovation. Recently, SCUBAPRO launched the new Hydros Pro 2, a buoyancy control device built for ultimate performance in all dive conditions. Hydros Pro 2 builds on the award-winning legacy of our original Hydros Pro, and we've seen great reception so far with lots of enthusiasm at DEMA, the world's largest scuba diving trade show. We look forward to shipping Hydros Pro 2 beginning this month.

Along with diving innovation in all business segments, we focused on strengthening our digital and e-commerce capabilities. Our goal is simple: make our products easy to find wherever consumers choose to shop. The landscape keeps changing, but our efforts to expand our digital footprint are already fueling growth, and we're excited about the progress. Digital and e-commerce continue to be an area of opportunity, and we're committed to building on that momentum.

Finally, our cost savings program remains a priority company-wide, and we continue to work on driving optimal product costs and enhancing operating efficiencies. Cost savings will continue to be a key priority in fiscal 2026. Overall, we're pleased with the solid finish to our fiscal year. While it's still too early to tell if the outdoor recreation marketplace has turned the corner, we do expect global macroeconomic challenges to continue to drive uncertainties and our strategic priorities remain more important than ever.

Heading into fiscal 2026, we feel confident that our ongoing investment in the consumer-driven innovation and digital and e-commerce excellence, along with our continued hard work on operational efficiencies are the right drivers to position Johnson Outdoors for future success.

Now I'll turn the call over to Dave for more details on financials.

David Johnson
CFO & VP

Thank you, Helen, and good morning, everyone. Loss before income taxes for 2025 was $9.3 million compared to a pretax loss of $29.9 million in fiscal 2024, with the improvement mainly due to the $11.2 million write-off of goodwill in the prior year as well as an increase in gross margin and decrease in operating expenses versus the prior year.

In fiscal 2025, we saw a tax expense of $25 million compared to a tax benefit of $3.3 million in the prior year. The current year expense was driven by a $25.9 million noncash reserve on U.S. deferred tax assets. This reserve reflects the company's assessment of the realizability of those assets in light of recent operating losses and may be released in future periods when profitability improves.

Gross margin for the fiscal '25 improved to 35.1%, up 1.2 points from the prior year. We're pleased with our progress on cost savings initiatives, which offset increases in material costs. Overhead absorption from higher volumes and reduced inventory reserves added to the improvement in gross margin.

Operating expenses decreased by 8% or $20.2 million from the prior fiscal year. Key drivers of the expense change were the write-off of the goodwill in the prior year, a decrease in promotional spending versus the prior year period and lower deferred compensation costs between years.

For the third year in a row, we were able to drive positive cash flow from operations. We continue to make progress on our inventory levels in fiscal 2025, which was one of the drivers of positive cash flow. Our inventory balance was at the end of the year was $170.7 million, down about $39 million from fiscal '24.

Regarding tariffs, we've made progress on our mitigation strategies, and we'll continue to make adjustments as the tariff situation evolves. Our balance sheet remains debt-free. We have a healthy cash position, and we remain confident in our ability and plans to create long-term value for shareholders.

Now I'll turn the call over to the operator for the Q&A session.

