Keysight Technologies, Inc. (KEYS) Q4 2025 Earnings Call November 24, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Paulenier Sims - Director of Investor Relations
Satish Dhanasekaran - President, CEO & Director
Neil Dougherty - Executive VP & CFO
Kailash Narayanan - Senior VP & President of Communications Solutions Group
Jason Kary - Senior VP & President of the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group

Conference Call Participants

Mehdi Hosseini - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Andrew Spinola - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Atif Malik - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Robert Mason - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
David Ridley-Lane - BofA Securities, Research Division
Mark Delaney - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Meta Marshall - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Timothy Long - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Robert Jamieson - Vertical Research Partners, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Keysight Technologies Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Victoria, and I will be your lead operator today. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded today, Monday, November 24, 2025, at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time.

I would now like to hand the call over to Paulina Sims, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ms. Sims.

Paulenier Sims
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, and welcome, everyone, to Keysight's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Fiscal Year 2025. Joining me are Satish Dhanasekaran, Keysight's President and CEO; and Neil Dougherty, our CFO. During the Q&A session, we will also be joined by Kailash Narayanan, President of the Communications Solutions Group; and Jason Kary, President of the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group.

The press release and information to supplement today's discussion are on our website at investor.keysight.com under Financial Information and Quarterly Reports.

Today's comments will refer to non-GAAP financial measures. We will also make reference to core growth, which excludes the impact of currency movements and acquisitions or divestitures completed within the last 12 months. The most directly comparable GAAP financial metrics and reconciliations are on our website, and all comparisons are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted.

We will make forward-looking statements about the financial performance of the company on today's call. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are only valid as of today. We assume no obligation to update them and encourage you to review our recent SEC filings for a more complete view of these risks and other factors.

Lastly, management is scheduled to participate in upcoming investor conferences hosted by UBS and Barclays.

And now, I will turn the call over to Satish.

Satish Dhanasekaran
President, CEO & Director

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today.

Keysight delivered an outstanding fourth quarter results exceeding the high end of our guidance. Orders grew 14%, revenue increased 10% and EPS rose 16%. This was a strong finish to a year of building momentum. Full year orders and revenue rose 8% and EPS increased 14%, surpassing our expectations and our long-term model.

Keysight's leadership and differentiated solutions continue to drive demand across our markets. Our portfolio is enabling major innovation waves shaping our markets, AI and accelerated compute, non-terrestrial networks, 6G, next-gen semiconductors and defense modernization. We enter our fiscal 2026 with a strong solutions road map aligned to our customers' priorities, a healthy pipeline of sales opportunities across our end markets and a broader set of capabilities.

In Q4, we advanced our software-centric solutions strategy with the acquisitions of Spirent, Synopsys Optical Solutions Group and Ansys PowerArtist. We're excited about the talent, the technology and the expanded customer value we can bring to the marketplace. Our operating model continues to generate strong free cash flow providing us the flexibility to invest in the organic growth of the business, pursue select strategic acquisitions and return of capital to shareholders.

In fiscal '25, we achieved record free cash flow of $1.3 billion, while investing in R&D, completing 3 acquisitions and returning approximately $375 million through buybacks.

Since the start of 2023, we have repurchased over $1.5 billion of shares or approximately 45% of free cash flow. Today, I am pleased to announce that our Board has authorized an additional $1.5 billion share repurchase program supporting our ongoing capital return.

Turning to business segments. The Communications Solutions Group orders grew for the sixth straight quarter delivering double-digit order and high single-digit revenue growth for the full year.

Wireline orders and revenue grew double digits both in Q4 and for the full year, setting a new record for the business. AI infrastructure build-outs and rapid upgrades to the technology stack are driving greater design, emulation and test intensity across multiple vectors.

Our solutions span the entire workflow from silicon design to system validation and secure deployments. The rapid scaling of AI workloads is accelerating new designs across the technology stack from compute to networking, interconnect, memory and power. These transitions require redesigns across AI silicon, DSPs, switches and transceivers, all of which are enabled by Keysight solutions.

Optical speed refresh cycles are also gaining momentum, moving from the 400 gig to 800 gig to 1.6 tera. In Q4, we collaborated with Broadcom to validate next-gen 1.6-terabit networking silicon and custom AI accelerators. Keysight's silicon photonic solutions continue to drive advancements in CPO and LPO technologies of the future.

With the breadth of Keysight's portfolio spanning physical layer solutions and AI emulation solutions built on technologies acquired from Ixia, we're making a meaningful contribution to the entire ecosystem. We're also capitalizing on robust demand from the scaling AI supply chain, including rack and cluster components, interconnects and AI accelerators.

Additionally, Keysight is actively involved with industry leaders and growing number of consortia shaping the future of AI infrastructure. At the Open Compute Project conference, we partnered with Meta to demonstrate large-scale validation of GPUs and networking prior to deployment into clusters. The recently launched Keysight AI data center builder won the Data Center Innovation Best Product Award at the European Conference on Connectivity in October of 2025.

Turning to wireless. Orders and revenue grew high single digits for the full year and outperformed expectations, driven by ongoing standards evolutions, non-terrestrial networks and early 6G research. We saw steady 5G demand continue with releases 18 and 19 of the standard, which included enhanced uplink, advanced MIMO and energy efficiency applications.

Momentum increased in non-terrestrial networks where we are engaged with industry-leading players to advance direct-to-cell connectivity and new LEO designs. Spirent's best-in-class precision location simulators expand Keysight's offering by providing the accuracy and the realism needed to enable the next generation of positioning, navigation and timing use cases.

In 6G, the industry is shifting from pure research to early pre-standards designs. We are engaged with market-defining customers and are well positioned to intercept the industry's priorities. We doubled our 6G collaborations over the past year, partnering with customers on several new applications, including channel sounding, network modeling, using digital twins, FR3 spectrum and advanced MIMO phased antenna design.

In aerospace, defense and government, we generated record orders, while revenue increased by 8% for the year. In an increasingly competitive global security and defense landscape, we're seeing strong customer engagement for defense modernization, enhanced deterrence capabilities and operational readiness.

Opportunities are expanding for Keysight as a traditional primes, direct government entities and a growing contingent of neo primes and defense technology companies invest in emerging technologies in space and satellite, autonomous systems and advanced antenna designs.

This quarter, we secured key wins with U.S. prime contractors to accelerate automated device verification. Our advanced component analysis capabilities are enabling fast phased array antenna over-the-air characterization for space, radar and tactical communication.

We won a deal from a U.S. prime contractor for multiple solution spanning high-performance spectrum analysis, signal generation and network analysis for radar and air defense applications. In Europe, momentum remained strong as multiple primes invest in radar, EMSO and space applications. Ministry of Defense in Allied Nations are leveraging our wideband signal recording capabilities to capture field data for lab analysis.

With decades of leadership across RF, digital and optical technologies, plus a new federal focus capabilities from Spirent, Keysight is well positioned to capture growing defense demand.

Now moving to Electronic Industrial Solutions Group. Orders and revenue both grew in Q4 and for the full year. In our general electronics business, orders grew for the fifth consecutive quarter and were up high single digits in Q4 and double digit for the full year, led by strength in the broad electronics supply chain, digital health and education.

AI-related innovation and investment fuel demand for our differentiated solutions for high-speed PCB, interconnect and component test. In digital health, interoperability, connectivity and latency challenges in the medical device and systems workflow are driving investment. Advanced research spending in semiconductor, 6G, quantum and photonics initiatives is also continuing at a steady rate, particularly outside of the U.S. where we benefit from our global scale and local engagement.

In semiconductor, the pace of innovation and investment remains robust. Our semi business delivered solid order and revenue growth this quarter, driven by steady demand for wafer test and lithography solutions, as AI-driven capacity expanded for leading-edge nodes, high-bandwidth memory and silicon photonics.

As lithography and foundry customers expand their own advanced packaging offerings, we're enabling them to achieve unprecedented levels of precision and accuracy. Our deep collaboration with the world's leading foundries and integrated device manufacturers as well as their respective customers allows us to identify and address their end-to-end needs from early R&D to wafer fabrication.

This year, we saw a robust growth in silicon photonics. The investments that we initiated 2 years ago are allowing us to capture this inflection. While geopolitical and policy uncertainties remain, the outlook for semiconductor capacity and investment and new technology road map remains positive in 2026.

In automotive, despite mixed headlines, we continue to empower customer innovation and demand has largely stabilized. We're also expanding into new opportunities in grid modernization where our combination of physical layer power and protocol layer network expertise is a differentiator. Our portfolio of solutions spans software-defined vehicles, EV, charging, grid and manufacturing.

In vehicle, network compliance and security remain customers' priorities as well as the design and test of new sensing architectures and optical connectivity. The recent acquisition of the Optical Solutions Group expands our photonics portfolio as interconnect and photonics complexity increases across next generation of industrial and automotive applications.

We continue to advance our go-to-market and customer engagement model to deepen long-standing strategic relationships while acquiring new customers and opportunities as the global supply chains shift. Over the past year, our teams executed to over 150 strategic engagements with market-defining innovators while expanding our customer base with more than 3,000 new logos.

Our Keysight World events reached thousands of customers globally. We actively participated in industry events such as Mobile World Congress and European Microwave and over 30 standards bodies with industry leaders. We continue to maintain life cycle engagement with our customers through our growing services business, which has reached record revenue, fueled by robust demand for KeysightCare premium offerings.

In summary, fiscal year '25 marks a return to growth. And as we look ahead, we're encouraged by the momentum in our business and end markets. The technologies reshaping our world directly match Keysight's strength, and we're leaning in with our first-to-market solutions, customer collaborations and operational discipline. Even in an uncertain environment, we're confident in the fundamentals of our business model and in our ability to deliver long-term shareholder value.

I'll now turn it over to Neil to discuss our financial performance and outlook in more detail.

Neil Dougherty
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Satish, and hello, everyone.

Fourth quarter revenue of $1.419 billion was above the high end of our guidance range, up 10% on a reported basis or 9% on a core basis. Orders of $1.533 billion were up 14% on a reported basis or 12% on a core basis. Fourth quarter results included $22 million in orders and $11 million of revenue from the recently completed acquisitions, while currency added $4 million to orders and $7 million to revenue.

Looking at our operational results for Q4. We reported gross margin of 64%, operating expenses of $539 million and operating margin of 26%. We generated $331 million of net income and delivered earnings per share of $1.91, which increased 16% year-over-year. Our weighted average share count for the quarter was 173 million shares.

For the full year, Keysight generated revenue of $5.375 billion, up 8% as reported or 7% on a core basis. Gross margin was 65% and operating margin was 26%. FY '25 earnings per share of $7.16 was up 14%. For the year, Keysight delivered core operating leverage of 39%, inclusive of tariff impacts.

Moving to the performance of our segments. The Communications Solutions Group generated fourth quarter revenue of $990 million, up 11% on a reported basis or 9% on a core basis. Commercial communications revenue of $660 million was up 12%, driven by continued strength in wireline and growth in wireless. Aerospace, defense and government achieved revenue of $330 million, an increase of 9%. Altogether, CSG delivered 66% gross margin and 27% operating margin.

The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group generated $429 million in revenue, an increase of 9% on a reported basis or 8% on a core basis, with growth in semiconductor and general electronics. EISG delivered 60% gross margin and 25% operating margin. In FY '25, software and services accounted for approximately 37% of Keysight revenue, while annual recurring revenue was 29% of the total.

Moving to the balance sheet and cash flow. We ended the quarter with $1.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents, generating cash flow from operations of $225 million and free cash flow of $188 million. During the quarter, we deployed $1.7 billion for acquisitions. We also repurchased 595,000 shares at an average price of approximately $168 for a total consideration of $100 million. Full year share repurchases totaled $375 million or approximately 30% of the $1.3 billion in free cash flow generated this year.

Now turning to our outlook. For the first quarter of 2026, we expect revenue in the range of $1.530 billion to $1.550 billion, representing 19% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. Excluding the recent acquisitions, this guidance assumes 10% year-over-year revenue growth. We expect Q1 earnings per share to be in the range of $1.95 to $2.01 based on a weighted diluted share count of approximately 173 million shares.

Keysight enters FY '26 with strong backlog and a robust sales funnel. As a result, we expect FY '26 revenue growth, excluding acquisitions, to be at or above the high end of our 5% to 7% long-term target.

The recently completed acquisitions of Spirent, the Optical Solutions Group and PowerArtist are expected to contribute approximately $375 million of revenue in FY '26. We are working to realize in excess of $100 million of synergies and other operational efficiencies across Keysight, even as we sustain critical investment in R&D to ensure Keysight's expanded product portfolio intersects the growth opportunities in our markets.

The acquisitions are expected to be accretive to Keysight's earnings 12 months post close. While this implies some mild dilution in FY '26, we expect the strength of our core business to enable FY '26 EPS growth at or above our long-term 10% target.

Now a few additional modeling considerations for the year. As expected, Keysight enters FY '26 having fully mitigated the impact of tariffs implemented in April. We now expect the August tariff increase to be fully mitigated in Q1 1 quarter earlier than previously communicated. These expectations are reflected in our guidance.

At current debt levels, annual interest expense is expected to be approximately $110 million, capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $160 million and we are modeling a 14% non-GAAP effective tax rate for FY '26.

In closing, we ended our fiscal 2025 with outstanding results and expect the momentum to carry into 2026. Technology innovation is driving demand for high-performance solutions across a broad range of industries. With our differentiated portfolio, technology leadership and durable financial model, we are well positioned to deliver sustained revenue and earnings growth.

With that, I will now turn it back to Paulina for the Q&A.

Paulenier Sims
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Neil. Victoria, will you please give the instructions for the Q&A?