Kinder Morgan, Inc. (KMI) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 21, 2026 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Richard Kinder - Executive Chairman of the Board
Kimberly Dang - CEO & Director
Thomas Martin - President
David Michels - VP & CFO
Sital Mody - VP & President of Natural Gas Pipelines

Conference Call Participants

Julien Dumoulin-Smith - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Jacqueline Koletas - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Theresa Chen - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Michael Blum - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jeremy Tonet - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Jean Ann Salisbury - BofA Securities, Research Division
Keith Stanley - Wolfe Research, LLC
Manav Gupta - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jason Gabelman - TD Cowen, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr. Rich Kinder, Executive Chairman of Kinder Morgan.

Richard Kinder
Executive Chairman of the Board

Thank you, Michelle. Before we begin, as usual, I'd like to remind you that KMI's earnings release today and this call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures. Before making any investment decisions, we strongly encourage you to read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements and use of non-GAAP financial measures set forth at the end of our earnings release as well as review our latest filings with the SEC for important material assumptions, expectations and risk factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and described in such forward-looking statements.

I have only 2 comments before turning the call over to our CEO, Kim Dang and the team. First, we believe our bullish outlook on natural gas demand remains grounded in reality, and we expect to see very strong growth over the rest of this decade and beyond. Now while there are several important drivers of that growth, the largest and most certain driver remains the need for additional LNG feed gas to service both expansions of existing export facilities and new greenfield projects coming online. We now estimate feed gas demand will average 19.8 Bcf per day in 2026, which is an all-time record, an increase of 19% from the daily average of 16.6 Bcf per day in 2025. And we see that demand increasing to over 34 Bcf per day by 2030. This astounding growth is enormously beneficial to the midstream sector and especially to companies like Kinder Morgan that have extensive pipeline networks along the Texas, Louisiana Gulf Coast, which is the location of most of the export terminals present and future.

Our throughput agreements for delivery of the feed gas are essentially take-or-pay in nature which gives us great confidence in the resulting cash flow. My second comment is specific to Kinder Morgan. You will hear from Kim and the team that we finished 2025 very strong compared to 2024 and to our budget for 2025. And as you know from our earlier release of the budget for 2026, we expect more good performance this year. Once again, the chief driver of our success in both years is the extraordinary strength of our natural gas assets.

And with that, I'll turn it over to Kim.

Kimberly Dang
CEO & Director

Okay. Thanks, Rich. As Rich said, we had a fantastic fourth quarter, producing record results for the quarter and the year. Much stronger than we anticipated when we announced our Q3 results.

For the quarter, adjusted EBITDA was up 10% compared to the fourth quarter of last year and adjusted EPS grew 22%. Those are big numbers for a stable midstream business like ours. The biggest driver of the outperformance was natural gas. It had an outstanding quarter and year. Our project backlog has increased by approximately $650 million to $10 billion. We added a little over $900 million in new projects which was offset by $265 million of projects placed in service. The most 2 significant additions are Florida Gas Transmission projects, both supported by long-term shipper contracts.

Our backlog multiple remains below 6x, which will drive very nice growth over the next few years. In addition, we're working on greater than $10 billion in project opportunities beyond the backlog. While we won't be successful on all of those, it gives you a sense of the tremendous market opportunity. We believe we will continue to find attractive opportunities for years to come. Wood Mac currently projects the U.S. natural gas market will continue to grow over the longer term, with an incremental 20 Bcf a day of demand growth between 2030 and 2035.

Now a quick update on our 3 largest projects, MSX, South System 4 and Trident. We started construction on Trident last week. And for MSX and South System 4, we received our FERC scheduling order. The FERC anticipates issuing our final certificate by July 31, which is a schedule we requested, but ahead of our original expectation. There's still a lot of work ahead, but all 3 projects are on budget and on or ahead of schedule. Another positive last week, S&P upgraded KMI to BBB+. That shows our balance sheet is in great shape.

On the management front, I want to take a moment to recognize Tom Martin, who will retire at the end of this month, for his wise counsel and the value he has helped delivered to our shareholders over his 23 years with the company. As we have previously announced, Tom will continue to serve as an adviser to the OCC and the Board, so we'll continue to benefit from his perspective. We're excited to have Dax, who many of you know from his long tenure at the company, step into the President's role. I'm looking forward to working with him closely as we continue to execute on our strategy.

To sum it up, we had a great quarter and year. We also strengthened our balance sheet and advanced key projects with a $10 billion backlog and tremendous potential beyond that we are set up for a very exciting future.

And with that, I'll turn it over to David -- Tom?

Thomas Martin
President

Thanks, Kim. I appreciate the kind words. Starting with the natural gas business unit, transport volumes were up 9% in the quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2024, primarily due to increased LNG feed gas deliveries on Tennessee Gas Pipeline. For the full year transport volumes were up 5% over 2024. Natural gas gathering volumes were up 19% in the quarter from the fourth quarter of 2024 across all of our G&P assets with the largest impact being from our Haynesville system. Sequentially, total gathering volumes were up 9% and the full year 2025 gathering volumes were up 4% versus 2024.

We experienced a significant ramp-up from our producer customers during the quarter to meet the growing LNG demand. Our Haynesville gathering system, for example, set a daily throughput record of 1.97 Bcf a day on December 24. Looking forward, we continue to see significant incremental project opportunities across our natural gas pipeline network. For example, we are in various stages of development to potentially serve more than 10 Bcf a day of natural gas demand in the power generation sector.

In our Products Pipeline segment, refined products volumes were down 2% in the quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2024. For the full year 2025, refined products lines are about equal to '24. Crude and condensate volumes were down 8% in the quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2024. More than all of that decline is driven by taking HH out of service for the NGL conversion project early in the third quarter of 2025. Excluding HH volumes in both periods, crude and condensate volumes were up 6% in the quarter compared to the fourth quarter of '24.

On January 16, 2026, KMI and Phillips 66 announced the start of the second open season on their proposed Western Gateway Pipeline system. Western Gateway Pipeline will connect Midwest and other refinery supply to Phoenix and to California with connectivity to Las Vegas, Nevada via KMI's CALNEV Pipeline. The second open season, which concludes on March 31, 2026 is for the remaining pipeline capacity and adds new access to the Los Angeles market via a joint tariff supported by the planned reversal of one of KMI's existing SFPP lines between Watson and Colton, California.

In addition to expanding the offered destinations, the second open season adds additional origin points to enable supply diversification and optionality for our customers. We believe this project provides an attractive supply alternative for markets in Arizona and in California. In our Terminals business segment, our liquids lease capacity remained high at 93%. Market conditions continue to remain supportive of strong rates and the utilization of tanks available for use is 99% at our key hubs on the Houston Ship Channel and at Carteret, New Jersey.

Our Jones Act tanker fleet remains exceptionally well contracted, assuming likely options are exercised. Our fleet is 100% leased through 2026, 97% leased through 2027 and 80% leased through 2028. We have opportunistically chartered a significant percentage of our fleet at higher market rates and have an average length of firm contract commitments of more than 3 years. The CO2 segment experienced 1% lower oil production volumes, 2% lower NGL volumes and 2% lower CO2 volumes in the quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2024. For the full year 2025, oil volumes are about 2% below '24 but finished strong in the quarter to be slightly above our plan for the year.

With that, I'll turn it over to David.

David Michels
VP & CFO

Thank you, Tom. This quarter, we're declaring a quarterly dividend of $0.2925 per share, which is $1.17 per share annualized, up 2% from 2024. For the fourth quarter, we generated net income attributable to KMI of $996 million and EPS of $0.45, 49% and 50% above the fourth quarter of 2024. This quarter's results included a gain on an asset sale which we treat as a certain item. Excluding certain items, our adjusted net income and adjusted EPS still grew very nicely, both 22% above the fourth quarter of 2024.

Our growth was driven by newly placed in service natural gas expansion projects, contributions from our Outrigger acquisition and continued strong demand for natural gas transport, storage and related services. For the full year 2025, we beat our budget by more than the contributions from our Outrigger acquisition. Outperformance came from our natural gas business, driven by greater value on transport capacity and ancillary services. Our Terminals segment also generated better-than-budgeted contributions. We budgeted to grow adjusted EBITDA by 4% and adjusted EPS by 10% from 2024. We actually grew adjusted EBITDA by 6% and adjusted EPS by 13%. Our 2025 EBITDA and net income were at all-time record levels for Kinder Morgan.

Moving on to the balance sheet. As we continue to grow our cash flows and take a disciplined approach to capital allocation, our balance sheet continues to strengthen. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio improved to 3.8x, down from 3.9x last quarter and down from 4.1x at the end of the first quarter, which was immediately following the acquisition of Outrigger. Since the end of 2024, our net debt has decreased $9 million despite nearly $3 billion of total investments in growth projects and the acquisition. So we'll go through a high-level reconciliation. We generated cash flow from operations of $5.92 billion. We've spent -- we've spent $2.6 billion in dividends.

We invested $3.15 billion in total CapEx, including growth sustaining and our contributions to joint ventures. We spent approximately $650 million on the Outrigger acquisition. We've received $380 million on divestitures, primarily the EagleHawk sale. And then we had all other items as a source of cash of about $100 million. That gets you close to the $9 million decrease in net debt for the year. The rating agencies have recognized our strengthened financial profile. Last week, S&P upgraded us to BBB positive. Fitch upgraded us to BBB+ during the summer of 2025, and we're on positive outlook by Moody's.

So as has already been mentioned, but I'll mention it again, 2025 was an exceptionally strong year, a record setting year, in fact. We beat our budget and delivered double-digit earnings growth. We grew our backlog from $8.1 billion to $10.0 billion despite placing $1.8 billion of projects into service, meaning we added $3.7 billion of projects to the backlog during the year. We improved our balance sheet. We achieved credit rating upgrades and expect meaningful cash flow benefits from tax reform which will generate additional investment capacity. We have very positive momentum heading into 2026.

And with that, I'll turn it back to Kim.

Kimberly Dang
CEO & Director

Okay, Michelle, if you'll come back on, and we'll take questions.

