Kura Sushi USA, Inc. (KRUS) Q1 2026 Earnings Call January 7, 2026 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Benjamin Porten - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & System Development
Hajime Uba - Chairman, President & CEO
Jeff Uttz - CFO & Treasurer

Conference Call Participants

Sharon Zackfia - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Jeremy Hamblin - Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, Research Division
Andrew Charles - TD Cowen, Research Division
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Jon Tower - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Mark Smith - Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division
James Sanderson - Northcoast Research Partners, LLC
George Kelly - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Todd Brooks - The Benchmark Company, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Kura Sushi USA, Inc. Fiscal First Quarter 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. Please note that this call is being recorded.

On the call today, we have Hajime Jimmy Uba, President and Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Uttz, Chief Financial Officer; and Benjamin Porten, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and System Development.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Porten.

Benjamin Porten
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & System Development

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you all for joining. By now, everyone should have access to our fiscal first quarter 2026 earnings release. It can be found at www.kurasushi.com in the Investor Relations section. A copy of the earnings release has also been included in the 8-K we submitted to the SEC.

Before we begin our formal remarks, I need to remind everyone that part of our discussion today will include forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and therefore, you should not put undue reliance on them. These statements are also subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from what we expect. We refer all of you to our SEC filings for a more detailed discussion of the risks that could impact our future operating results and financial condition.

Also during today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and the reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures are available in our earnings release.

With that out of the way, I would like to turn the call over to Jimmy.

Hajime Uba
Chairman, President & CEO

Thanks, Ben, and happy New Year to everyone for joining us on the call today. We are making great progress towards the goals we laid out in our annual guidance and towards achieving positive comparable sales on a full year basis. Regarding our goal of 16 new restaurant openings, we have 10 units under construction on top of the 4 restaurants opened to date. Our commitment to aggressive cost management has reduced G&A as a percentage of sales by 80 basis points on an adjusted basis. We are also able to lever labor as a percentage of sales, renewing our confidence in our ability to improve labor cost by 100 basis points in fiscal 2026. The first quarter has created a strong foundation for us to build on as we enter the easier comparisons of Q2 and Q3.

Total sales for the fiscal first quarter was $73.5 million, representing comparable sales growth of negative 2.5%, outperforming the comp expectations we have shared during our last earnings call. We were very pleased to see the sequential improvement at the end of the quarter and for this momentum to have continued past November. Cost of goods as a percentage of sales was 29.9% as compared to the prior year quarter's 29%.

As a reminder, we took 3.5% price on November 1, so Q1 did not see the full quarter benefit. Also, as we have previously discussed, we expect full year COGS to be around 30% after considering the impact of tariffs and achieving the full benefit of our menu price adjustment. Labor as a percentage of sales was 32.5% compared to -- as compared to the prior year period's 32.9% due to a number of initiatives relating to operating costs.

Shifting to real estate. We opened 4 restaurants in the first quarter, Arcadia and Modesto in California and Freehold and Lawrenceville in New Jersey. We currently have 10 restaurants under construction, including 1 in Tulsa and 1 in Charlotte, both of which are new markets for us. As we have mentioned in the last earnings call, fiscal '25 was the strongest [ class ] in recent memory, and the restaurants we've opened to date are continuing this trend. We expect to open one unit in the fiscal second quarter and for the remainder to open in the back half of the year.

Turning to marketing. We are currently engaged in our campaign with Kirby, coinciding with the release of Kirby Air Riders for Switch 2. As part of our efforts to maximize the impact of each collaboration, we have introduced IP-themed Mr. Fresh domes and touch panels, which have been well received by our guests. As we mentioned in our last earnings call, research is ongoing for the introduction of rewards program status tiers.

We also began advertising our reservation system for the first time during the holidays. In preparation for the reservation system's marketing campaign, we have also decoupled the reservation system from our rewards program with the hopes of encouraging adoption by removing the user friction created by required app download and allowing guests to place reservations directly through the Kura website or our Google Maps pages.

In other system development news, the manufacturing of our robotic dishwashers is proceeding on schedule, and we continue to expect to begin installation in Q3 and to have the majority of 50 eligible existing restaurants retrofitted by the end of the fiscal year.

To conclude, we are pleased with the progress we made toward towards the goals we shared with our annual guidance. We believe were on the right path to achieving positive comp sales for the year. I would like to express my thanks to every one of our team members at the restaurants and support centers for their partnership in achieving these goals.

Jeff, now I'll hand it over to you to discuss our financial results and liquidity.

Jeff Uttz
CFO & Treasurer

Thanks, Jimmy. For the first quarter, total sales were $73.5 million as compared to $64.5 million in the prior year period. Comparable restaurant sales performance compared to the prior year period was negative 2.5% with a negative traffic of 2.5% and flat price and mix.

Comparable sales in our West Coast market were negative 2.8%, and comparable sales in our Southwest market were negative 2.7%. Effective pricing for the quarter was 3.5%. On November 1, we took a 3.5% menu price increase, and after lapping prior increases, our effective price for the second quarter will be 4.5%. As a reminder, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2027, we will no longer provide regional breakdowns for comparable sales, as regional comps are largely determined by the timing of infills, and we do not believe that they are indicative of overall company trends.

Turning to costs. Food and beverage costs as a percentage of sales were 29.9% compared to 29% in the prior year quarter due to tariffs on imported ingredients. Labor and related costs as a percentage of sales were 32.5% as compared to 32.9% in the prior year quarter due to pricing and initiatives related to operations, offset by sales deleverage and labor inflation. Occupancy and related expenses as a percentage of sales were 7.9% compared to the prior year quarter's 7.4% due to sales deleverage.

Depreciation and amortization expenses as a percentage of sales were 5.4% as compared to the prior year quarter's 4.8% due to sales deleverage and remodel costs. Other costs as a percentage of sales were 16.1% as compared to the prior year quarter's 14.5% due to sales deleverage and higher marketing costs. This line is also impacted by tariffs as some of the expenses in this category come from overseas purchases.

General and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were 13%, which includes 30 basis points in litigation accruals as compared to 13.5% in the prior year quarter. Operating loss was $3.7 million compared to an operating loss of $1.5 million in the prior year quarter, largely due to tariff pressures on our food and beverage costs and other cost line items. Income tax expense was $36,000 as compared to $39,000 in the prior year quarter.

Net loss was $3.1 million or negative $0.25 per share compared to a net loss of $1 million or negative $0.08 per share in the prior year quarter. Adjusted net loss, which excludes the litigation accrual, was $2.8 million or negative $0.23 per share as compared to an adjusted net loss of $1 million or negative $0.08 per share in the prior year quarter.

Restaurant-level operating profit as a percentage of sales was 15.1% compared to 18.2% in the prior year quarter. Adjusted EBITDA was $2.4 million as compared to $3.6 million in the prior year quarter. And at the end of the fiscal first quarter, we had $78.5 million of cash, cash equivalents and investments and no debt.

And lastly, I'd like to reiterate our following guidance for fiscal year 2026. We expect total sales to be between $330 million and $334 million. We expect to open 16 new units, maintaining annual unit growth rate above 20% with average net capital expenditures per unit continuing to approximate $2.5 million. We expect G&A expenses as a percentage of sales to be between 12% and 12.5%, and we expect full year restaurant-level operating profit margins to be approximately 18%.

With that, I will turn things back over to Jimmy.

Hajime Uba
Chairman, President & CEO

Thanks, Jeff. This concludes our prepared remarks. We are now happy to answer any questions you have. Operator, please open the line for questions. As a reminder, during the Q&A session, I may answer in Japanese before my response is translated into English.

