Kohl's Corporation (KSS) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 25, 2025 9:00 AM EST


Company Participants

Trevor Novotny
John Schlifske
Michael Bender - Interim CEO & Director
Jill Timm - Chief Financial Officer


Conference Call Participants

Charles Grom - Gordon Haskett Research Advisors
Paul Lejuez - Citigroup Inc. Exchange Research
Mark Altschwager - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Robert Drbul - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Oliver Chen - TD Cowen, Research Division
Dana Telsey - Telsey Advisory Group LLC


Presentation


Operator

Good morning, and welcome to the Kohl's Corporation Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Trevor Novotny, Director of Investor Relations. Thank you. Please go ahead.


Trevor Novotny

Thank you. Certain statements made on this call, including those regarding our projected financial results, business outlook and future initiatives are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected.

These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described in Item 1A of Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC, all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Forward-looking statements relate to the date initially made, and Kohl's undertakes no obligation to update them.

In addition, during this call, we may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the cautionary statement and reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures included in the investor presentation filed as an exhibit to our Form 8-K, as filed with the SEC and available on our Investor Relations website.

Please note that this call will be recorded. However, replays of this call will not be updated. So if you are listening to a replay, it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current, and Kohl's undertakes no obligation to update such information.

With me this morning are John Schlifske, our Independent Chair of the Board; Michael Bender, our Chief Executive Officer; and Jill Timm, our Chief Financial Officer.

I will now turn the call over to John.


John Schlifske

Thank you, Trevor, and thank you for joining us this morning. I will be providing some brief introductory remarks, and then I'm going to turn it over to Michael and Jill to go over our third quarter performance, and then we'll take some Q&A.

As announced yesterday, the Board has appointed Michael Bender as Chief Executive Officer of Kohl's. Michael is a seasoned retail veteran who has a deep understanding of Kohl's business, serving as a Board member since 2019 former Chair of the Board and most recently as Interim CEO since May.

In addition to his Kohl's experience, Michael brings over 30 years of senior leadership experience across the retail and consumer goods industries. Over the last 6 months, the Board has gone through an extensive search process to identify our new CEO, and we could not be more thrilled to have Michael as the next leader of this company. There's been a lot of change over the last year at Kohl's, and Michael has proven to be an effective leader, fostering a strong culture and providing stability through the transition.

Additionally, during this time as interim CEO, Michael has made important strategic decisions addressed key areas of opportunities and helped deliver progressive improvements to the business. Kohl's has a solid foundation for the future, boasting over 1,100 stores in a vast digital platform that serves more than 60 million customers each year. We have the utmost confidence that Michael is the right leader for this company, and we're excited about the substantial opportunity that can be realized under his leadership.

On behalf of the Board, I'd like to congratulate Michael on his new position. We look forward to supporting him and the management team in this next chapter.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Michael.


Michael Bender
Interim CEO & Director

Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining Kohl's third quarter earnings conference call. I'm honored to assume the role as Chief Executive Officer of Kohl's, and I would like to thank John and the Board for giving me the opportunity to lead this great company.

Since I joined the team in May, I've been deeply impressed with the Kohl's team, their resilience and their motivation to win. My commitment is to lead this organization, our associates and our customers. Every day, Kohl's has the privilege of serving millions of customers, and we will continually strive to enhance their experience and meet their evolving needs. I'm excited about the opportunity that lies ahead and look forward to repositioning Kohl's for future success.

Now during our call today, I'd like to discuss three items with you. First, discuss our third quarter performance; second, highlight the progress we're making against our 2025 initiatives. And lastly, give a brief overview of how we are positioned for the Q4 holiday season.

Let me start with our third quarter results. We are pleased as we delivered both top line and bottom line performance ahead of our expectations for the third consecutive quarter. These results directly reflect the progress we're making against our 2025 initiatives, which are building momentum and continuing to resonate with our customers. While we are encouraged with the progressive improvement we're making, we want to acknowledge that this performance is not representative of where we aspire to be.

Our team is working diligently to further execute against these 2025 initiatives to deliver quality products, great value and a frictionless experience to our customers. Looking deeper into our top line performance, our comparable sales performance continued to improve as we ran down 1.7% in the third quarter. We started the quarter with a better-than-expected performance in August and back-to-school season.

However, in September, we experienced a slowdown as we faced unseasonably warmer weather impacting our fall seasonal businesses. October was the strongest month as we delivered a positive 1% comparable sales performance. The quarter was led by a strong digital performance, up 2% versus last year.

As Jill will discuss in further detail later in the call, the improved performance was driven by an acceleration in our transactions versus prior quarter. This was particularly notable with our Kohl's Card customer, whose sales performance improved by over 500 basis points from Q2. This demonstrates important progress we're making with reengaging our core customers.

While these results are encouraging, we continue to operate in an environment where our customers are becoming increasingly choiceful as their discretionary income remains pressured. This is especially notable in our low to middle-income consumers, as well as in our younger customers. These customers are becoming increasingly savvy and are seeking more value.

We expect this customer behavior to continue into the fourth quarter as we believe the macroeconomic environment will remain uncertain. This leads into the progress we're making against our 2025 initiatives. These efforts are centered around three key priorities: first, offering a curated, more balanced assortment that fulfills the needs of our customers. Next, reestablishing Kohl's as a leader in value and quality and lastly, delivering a frictionless shopping experience across our omnichannel platforms.

Starting with our first initiative, offering a curated and more balanced assortment that fulfills the needs across all of our customers. By delivering an improved rebalanced assortment, we are able to serve a broader range of customers. As we have previously communicated, our focus in recent years has been around attracting a new customer which unintentionally led to not fully catering to our core loyal customers' needs.

Each quarter this year, we have made meaningful improvements to our assortment offerings, which have translated to an improvement in transactions particularly from our core customers.

In addition, we are pleased to report that the new assortment continues to resonate with our non-Kohl's card customers, driving a fourth consecutive quarter of positive sales growth. The category that is particularly important to this core customer and overall company performance is our women's business. Women's ran in line with company performance and experienced a significant improvement from the second quarter. This was led by positive performance in our proprietary brands, which heavily penetrated into our women's business.

We continue to see the benefit from reinvesting inventory into key priority brands like Lauren Conrad, Simply Vera Vera Wang and Tek Gear. Within the women's category, we experienced an acceleration in our juniors business, which ran a positive comp in the quarter. Juniors is a pivotal component to the women's performance as it is a faster turning business and has reduced lead times on products.

We saw strength in our key fall categories such as sweaters and fleece. We also benefited from the denim trend with national brands like Levi's and proprietary brands like SO.

Lastly, we continue to see positive performance in Petites, as we benefit from reestablishing this category in all stores earlier this year. Building on this success, we are excited about expanding this presence next year with our proprietary brands, Lauren Conrad and Simply Vera Vera Wang, in all stores.

Our men's business showed significant improvement in the quarter, running in line with company performance. This improvement from Q2 was driven by better clarity in our offering. As we enter Q4, we are continuing to make progress around clarity as receipts for our choice counts are down 10% and debt is up 5%. Customers leaned into proprietary brands, which ran a positive comp in the quarter as they looked for key brands like FLX and Tek Gear. In addition to solid proprietary brand performance, men's apparel also saw strong performance in the dress and tailored category with brands like HAGGAR and Apartment 9.

Accessories continues to be a bright spot for the company with Sephora, Impulse and jewelry collectively helping to deliver positive comparable sales in the quarter. Sephora ran up 2% in the quarter with comparable sales down 1%, with solid performance in categories like fragrance and hair care from brands like YSL, Valentino and Summer Fridays. We continue to be pleased with this partnership, which delivered nearly a $2 billion business in 4 years. Sephora is outstanding at offering discovery, innovation and newness to customers and we are thrilled to announce that we will be offering MAC in 850 of our Sephora at Kohl's stores in spring of 2026.

In September, we completed the rollout of 613 impulse queuing lines, establishing a presence in nearly all stores. Impulse ran up over 40% in the quarter as we continue to benefit from this white space opportunity that adds an additional unit to our customers' baskets.

Jewelry ran up 10% in Q3 as we continue to gain traction in this category after we establish the destination for accessories behind Sephora. Strength in jewelry came from both fashion and bridge jewelry, as well as fine jewelry, both running positive comps in the quarter. We continue to test fine jewelry in 200 doors and believe this category will be an opportunity for us moving forward as its nonsubstitutable nature helps provide an incremental sale.

Our home business showed the largest improvement in the quarter, running in line with company performance. Soft Home categories like bedding and bath outperformed with strength from new proprietary brands like Hotelier and Miryana. Small electrics continue to underperform as expected given the impact of price increases and buying quantities down based on our elasticity analysis.

Lastly, footwear and kids remained challenged in the quarter. These categories remain an opportunity for us moving forward. In kids, we are looking for ways to highlight key proprietary brands like Jumping Beans and Little Co. The footwear business continues to underperform with softness coming from active footwear and boots. We expect the boots business to remain soft in Q4 as we adjusted our buys down given the pricing elasticities of this category. Dress and casual footwear showed strength in the quarter with brands like Apartment 9.

Moving on now to our second initiative, reestablishing Kohl's as a leader in value and quality. What differentiates Kohl's is our ability to offer customers a blend of top national brands like Nike, Levi's and Sephora, as well as proprietary brands that are exclusive to Kohl's. This complementary brand assortment is essential to our value proposition as it enables customers to find quality, relevance and value in shopping at Kohl's. This value proposition is especially important to our core loyal customers who expect to find exceptional value when shopping at Kohl's.

As our customers continue to be more choiceful and remain under pressure, we have the opportunity to meet their needs and offer more value with elevating our proprietary brands. We identified the opportunity to reinvest into our proprietary brands 1 year ago as we over-indexed into market brands, making it more challenging to find products at an opening price point.

Since identifying this opportunity, we have made sequential improvement each quarter delivering a positive proprietary sales performance in the third quarter. This performance was led by brands like SO and Juniors LC and Simply Vera Vera Wang in women's and Tek Gear and FLX and men's. In addition to these well-established brands, we are seeking to find new opportunities to offer more value-oriented proprietary brands in categories like home and kids.

In home, we recently launched three new brands. Hotelier, Mingle & Co and Miryana, which serve our soft home and tabletop categories. Our customers have shown positive initial reactions to these introductions, and we are excited about these brands moving forward. Building off the success of our FLX brand, which delivered another quarter of double-digit sales growth, we made the decision to expand this brand into our kids department in September. Currently, we have FLX Kids in 300 doors and are committed to expanding this to more doors next spring. As we continue to refine our balance between national and proprietary brands, we're committed to moving where our customer is leading us.

The second action we took to deliver more value to our customers was through enhanced promotional strategies. Kohl's has traditionally offered incredible value to our customers through our coupon led promotional strategy. And after excluding a growing number of brands, our promotions became less impactful to our customers over recent years. This ultimately created unnecessary friction within our shopping experience particularly with our Kohl's card customers.

In response to this, we identified a list of brands to be coupon eligible at the end of the first quarter. Following the success of the initial wave of brand inclusion, we made the decision to add a second wave of brands into the coupon in late August. The second wave was smaller as it included roughly 50 brands that are more digitally native.

We continue to see a positive impact to our digital channel as this channel experiences elevated pricing transparency.

Additionally, we are encouraged by the improvements this is generating with our core Kohl's card customers. We continue to test ways to drive customer awareness on brands that are now coupon eligible through signage and graphics.

Next, I would like to discuss our last priority, which is delivering a frictionless experience across our omnichannel platforms. We're focused on creating an elevated, more consistent experience across our store fleet and on our digital platforms. To capitalize on this opportunity, we're identifying ways to optimize our store layout, increase our inspiration and restore trip assurance.

We continue to see benefits after making edits to our store layout. Following some preliminary adjacency analyses, specifically with juniors and accessories businesses, we decided to move Juniors to the front of the store across from Sephora and establish an accessories pad behind Sephora. Since making these changes, both categories have shown progress.

In accessories, excluding Sephora, we've seen three consecutive quarters of positive sales growth driven by initiatives like Jewelry and Impulse. For Juniors, we achieved a positive comp in the third quarter as we benefit from Sephora across shoppers and investments we've made into our proprietary assortment. Moving forward, we're continuing to look for ways to optimize our store layout to enable us to capture incremental sales.

In addition to the store layout, we are enhancing the shopping experience by increasing the inspiration in our stores. A few ways we are achieving this are by showcasing newness and relevant styles with mannequins and enhancing brand awareness and findability through in-store graphics. You will start seeing some of this in-store inspiration in Q4 with our holiday displays with most of the inspiration to set in 2026.

Digitally, we continue to make solid progress applying artificial intelligence to improve efficiency and elevate the customer experience. AI is helping our engineers work faster to complete site updates and enhance our app performance. In marketing, predictive AI is guiding media investments and personalizing offers and generative tools are helping creative teams produce content faster.

While many initiatives are still developing, we are already seeing benefits in productivity, agility and customer engagement. We're taking a disciplined approach to scaling these capabilities as we continue to modernize the business and position Kohl's for long-term growth.

Lastly, we remain extremely focused on restoring trip assurance to our customer experience. This is a core pillar of what Kohl's is known for, and our increased choice counts over recent years has resulted in limited debt in key essential items. We're making progress in this, specifically in our women's business with categories like intimates and dresses, both of which made edits to exit out of less productive styles. We're also investing into depth for key sizes, helping deliver improved sales performance in both categories. As we continue to prioritize this initiative, we're using AI to help optimize our inventory allocation which will help provide a more consistent and reliable shopping experience going forward.

Now I would like to give a preview on how we're approaching the ever-important holiday season. We're excited about the momentum and opportunity we have heading into the holidays. The holidays are always a promotional time period, and we expect this to continue this year, especially given the state of the consumer. We have done a lot of great work throughout the year to show up for customers as a destination for exceptional value and gifting, a 1/3 of which will be exclusive to Kohl's. We entered the quarter in a better inventory position particularly with our proprietary brands, which will be essential in offering value to our customers in holiday through our sweaters, knits and fleece offerings.

In Sephora, we expanded our holiday gifting steps which have continued to resonate well with our customers. We're also building on new brand launches from Q3 with additional brands like Danessa Myricks, Astora, Biodance and Kayali, which has become our #1 fragrance in women's. In addition to proprietary brands in Sephora, we're excited about the product offerings in our home category this year. In hard home business, we're thrilled to offer new items such as the Green pan by body flay alongside new innovative items from key brands like Ninja and Shark. On the soft home side, we're emphasizing our bedding with value-oriented brands like Cuddl Duds and Cozy throws from Big One.

Importantly, toys will be a key gifting category for us this holiday. We're excited about our offering of trending toys like Barbie, LEGO and Tonies 2, as well as toys from favorite brands like Hot Wheels and Step2. This year, we're also seeing great engagement with our trading card offerings like Pokemon. From a marketing standpoint, we're making a statement in front of the store that is designed to inspire featuring everything customers need to welcome the holidays, find thoughtful gifts for the family and host and style. We're leading with compelling value to our customers, leaning into Kohl's cash and awards, which helps drive repeat trips and increased engagement.

Additionally, given the changes we made to our coupon inclusion this year, our customers will have more purchasing power this year compared to last year.

Before I turn the call over, I want to reiterate the key messages from this call. First, our improved performance in the third quarter is a direct reflection of momentum we're building to better serve all customers. Second, we're making great progress against our 2025 initiatives. We're encouraged with the results, but still have more work to do.

And third, we're excited about how we are positioned to deliver exceptional value to our customers during this important 2025 holiday season. All this progress and momentum could not have been made without the incredible work from our Kohl's associates. We have made great strides together as a team, and each day, I work with you, I am more and more impressed with our resilience and desire to win. The opportunity that lies ahead of us is clear and substantial, and we are committed to making more progress each quarter.

With that, I would now like to hand the call over to Jill.


Jill Timm
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Michael. For today's call, I'll provide additional details on our third quarter results and give an update on our fiscal year 2025 guidance. Net sales declined 2.8% in the quarter and 4% year-to-date. Comparable sales declined 1.7% in Q3 and declined 3.2% year-to-date. The third quarter improvement was mainly driven by an increase in transactions versus prior quarter, while our average transaction value remained flat year-over-year.

In addition, proprietary brands ran a positive comp in the quarter with business accelerating as the quarter progressed. Digital sales outperformed stores again in Q3 and grew by 2.4% versus last year. This performance was driven by an increase in traffic throughout the quarter going from high single digits in August to high teens in October. From a customer perspective, we saw significant improvement in our Kohl's card customers, which were down high single digits in Q3, an increase in trend of over 500 basis points in the last quarter with the improvement coming from both the store and digital channels.

Moving down the P&L. Other revenue, which primarily consists of our credit business, was $168 million in Q3, a 17% decline compared to last year. As a reminder, we launched our co-brand credit card last September, so on a comparable basis, starting this quarter, we are no longer receiving the incremental benefit seen in the first half of this year.

In addition to this, we continue to face a headwind as we shifted some credit-related expenses from SG&A into other revenue. While our Kohl's Card still remains pressured, we made meaningful progress reengaging this customer throughout the year. We remain committed to furthering this progress as we continue into Q4 and next year.

Gross margin in Q3 was 39.6%, an improvement of 51 basis points versus last year. This year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by strong inventory management and product mix benefits driven by our positive proprietary sales performance this quarter. Year-to-date, gross margin was 39.8%, an increase of 39 basis points to last year. SG&A expenses declined 2.1% to $1.3 billion in Q3, driven by lower spending in stores, marketing and fulfillment with additional savings stemming from a portion of credit expenses shifting into other revenue. Year-to-date, SG&A expenses have declined 3.8%.

Depreciation was $176 million in Q3, a decrease of $8 million versus last year. The decrease was driven by lower capital expenditures and the impact from closed locations. Year-to-date depreciation expense $526 million, down $34 million for the prior year. Interest expense was $75 million in the third quarter and $229 million year-to-date.

In the third quarter, we realized a benefit of $9 million within our adjusted tax line. This benefit was due to the release of tax reserves. We now expect our full year tax rate to be roughly 18%. Adjusted net income in the third quarter was $11 million, equating to an adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.10. Year-to-date, adjusted net income of $61 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share is $0.54.

Moving on to the balance sheet and cash flow. We ended Q3 with $144 million of cash and cash equivalents. Inventory decreased approximately 5% compared to last year in Q3. We are positioned well from an inventory perspective as we head into the holiday season as we had a better flow of inventory this year and brought in inventory earlier than last year, which had elevated in-transit levels.

Year-to-date, our operating cash flow was $630 million, and our adjusted free cash flow is $270 million. We remain on track to achieve $1.3 billion of operating cash flow and $900 million of free cash flow at the end of this fiscal year. Our borrowings on the revolver declined to $45 million at the end of Q3, over a $700 million decrease from last year. We remain committed to fully exiting the revolver by the end of this year.

Capital expenditures ended at $308 million year-to-date. We are on track to spend approximately $400 million of CapEx this year, with the majority of these investments relating to the completion of our full chain Sephora rollout, implementing 613 additional Impulse Q lines, and the expansion of one of our next-generation e-commerce fulfillment centers.

Year-to-date, we have returned $42 million to shareholders through our dividend. And as previously disclosed, the Board on November 12, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.125 per share payable to shareholders on December 24.

Next, I would like to provide an update to our 2025 outlook. As mentioned previously in this call, we made meaningful progress to date on our 2025 initiatives. Each quarter, we have made sequential improvements in our key areas of focus, including investments into our proprietary brands and debt accounts delivering competitive value through our promotional strategy and optimizing our store layouts, all of which are continuing to resonate with our customers.

With that said, we continue to navigate a fluid and dynamic macroeconomic environment. We recognize that our middle to low-income customers are experiencing persistent pressure and a tightening of their discretionary income. We aim to be mindful of this as we lay out our updated outlook. For the full year, we expect net sales decline of 3.5% to 4%, comparable sales decline of 2.5% to 3%. Other revenue down 11% to 12%, gross margin expansion of 30 to 35 basis points, and SG&A decline of 3.75% to 4% and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.25 to $1.45.

Lastly, I would like to emphasize my sincere appreciation of the incredible team here at Kohl's. We have been able to make significant progress on our goals despite navigating an uncertain and challenging environment, thanks to your continued commitment. I'm excited to continue this progress forward with all of you. I want to reiterate the importance of your impact to both our customers and our organization.

We are now happy to take your questions at this time.