Eli Lilly and Company (LLY) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 30, 2025 10:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Mike Czapar - Director of Investor Relations
David Ricks - Chairman, CEO & President
Lucas Montarce - Executive VP & CFO
Daniel Skovronsky - EVP, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Research Laboratories & Lilly immunology
Patrik Jonsson - Executive VP & President of Lilly International
Ilya Yuffa - Executive VP and President of Lilly USA & Global Customer Capabilities
Anne White - Executive VP & President of Lilly Neuroscience
Kenneth Custer - Executive VP & President of Lilly Cardiometabolic Health

Conference Call Participants

Terence Flynn - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Christopher Schott - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Seamus Fernandez - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
James Shin - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Geoffrey Meacham - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Steve Scala - TD Cowen, Research Division
Mohit Bansal - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Courtney Breen - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Asad Haider - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Timothy Anderson - BofA Securities, Research Division
Alexandria Hammond - Wolfe Research, LLC
Umer Raffat - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Akash Tewari - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Evan Seigerman - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Lilly Q3 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Mike Czapar
Director of Investor Relations

Good morning. Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly Company's Q3 2025 Earnings Call. I'm Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Joining me on today's call are Dave Ricks, Lilly's Chair and CEO; Lucas Montarce, Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Dan Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Immunology; Anne White, President of Lilly Neuroscience; Ilya Yuffa, President of Lilly USA and Global Customer Capabilities; Jake Van Naarden, President of Lilly Oncology; Patrik Jonsson, President of Lilly International; and Ken Custer, President of Lilly Cardiometabolic Health. We're also joined by Marc Kemen, Susan Hedglin and Wes Taul, of the Investor Relations team.

During this call, we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially due to several factors, including those listed on Slide 4. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is contained in our latest Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC. The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community. It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions. As we transition to our prepared remarks, please note that our commentary will focus on non-GAAP financial measures. Now I'll turn the call over to Dave. Dave, we'll turn the call over to you.

David Ricks
Chairman, CEO & President

Sorry. Thanks, Mike. Appreciate it. Q3 was another strong quarter for Lilly. We made progress across all our strategic deliverables. We delivered compelling financial results, advanced our pipeline and achieved key milestones to expand our manufacturing footprint. This is all shown on Slide 6. In Q3, revenue grew 54% compared to the same period last year. Revenue from key products more than doubled as our medicines continued to increase their global impact. In the U.S., Lilly gained market share in the incretin analogs market for the fifth consecutive quarter. Lilly medicines account for nearly 6 out of 10 prescriptions within this large and growing class. Outside the U.S. Mounjaro performance accelerated, driven by robust uptake around the world.

As a result of our strong financial performance, we raised our revenue and earnings per share guidance. Lucas will cover this in more detail later in the call. Since our last earnings call, we achieved several key milestones, including U.S. FDA approval for imlunestrant under the brand name Inluriyo for ER+, HER2-, ESR1-mutated advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The EU approved Kisunla for early symptomatic Alzheimer's disease. Positive results from Phase III trial of Jaypirca in treatment of naive CLL. Positive overall survival data for Verzenio in high-risk early breast cancer. Positive results from the second Phase III trial of orforglipron in obesity, enabling now global submissions to begin later this year. Positive results from 3 additional Phase III trials of orforglipron in type 2 diabetes, including 1 trial that demonstrated head-to-head superiority versus oral semaglutide.

We also made good progress executing our manufacturing expansion agenda. We announced plans to build 2 new U.S. facilities that will make active pharmaceutical ingredients and the expansion of an existing facility in Puerto Rico. The new facility in Virginia will support our bioconjugate and monoclonal antibody portfolio. And the new facility in Texas and the expansion in Puerto Rico will support our small molecule portfolio, including orforglipron. We plan to announce updates on our 2 remaining new U.S. manufacturing facilities in the coming months. During the quarter, we distributed $1.3 billion in dividends and executed approximately $700 million in share repurchases. Now I'll turn the call over to Lucas to review the Q3 results.

Lucas Montarce
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Dave. As shown on Slide 7, Q3 was another strong quarter of financial performance. Revenue grew 54% compared to Q3 2024, driven by our key products. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 83.6% in Q3, an increase of 1.4 percentage points versus the same quarter last year. This improvement was driven by favorable product mix, partially offset by lower realized prices. Research and development expenses increased 27% driven by continued investments in our portfolio. We have initiated 16 new Phase III programs since the start of 2024 and continue to advance our pipeline. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased 31% as we continue to increase investment to support ongoing and future launches across therapeutic areas and geographies.

Our non-GAAP performance margin, which we define as gross margin less R&D, marketing, selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue was 48.3%. Performance margin increased by more than 8 percentage points from Q3 2024, driven by revenue growth. At the bottom line, earnings per share increased to $7.02 inclusive of $0.71 of acquired IPR&D charges. This compares to $1.18 in Q3 2024, which included $3.08 of acquired IPR&D charges.

On Slide 8, we quantify the effect of price, rate and volume on revenue growth. U.S. revenue increased 45% in Q3, driven by strong volume growth of Zepbound and Mounjaro partially offset by a 15% decline in price. Price was negatively impacted by a favorable one-time adjustment to estimates for rebates and discounts in Q3 2024. Excluding this base period effect, U.S. price declined by high single digits.

In Europe, revenue increased by over 100% in constant currency, reflecting the strong uptake of Mounjaro. Revenue was positively impacted by $380 million onetime benefit related to a milestone payment and business development. Excluding this impact, revenue grew 81% in constant currency. Japan, China and Rest of the World delivered constant currency revenue growth of 24%, 22% and 51%, respectively, driven by Mounjaro volume growth.

On Slide 9, we provide an update on the performance of our key products, which accounted for $12 billion of revenue within the quarter. Beginning with immunology, EBGLYSS delivered strong performance in atopic dermatitis as U.S. total prescriptions increased by 41% compared to Q2 2025. We saw increased use in the first-line setting, which now accounts for more than 50% of new EBGLYSS patients. Omvoh continued a steady uptake and the newly published 4-year data in ulcerative colitis show long-term safety and efficacy benefits. Within oncology, Jaypirca continued to build momentum both in the marketplace and with new data from Phase III trials. Dan will talk more about this later during the R&D update.

Verzenio remains the market leader in the U.S. for the node-positive, high risk early breast cancer population, reflective of its position as standard of care in this setting. In the U.S., prescription grew by 3% compared to Q3 2024 and international volume grew by 14%. In neuroscience, Kisunla total prescription grew by 50% compared to Q2 2025 and continue to increase share of market versus the competition. We also recently received marketing authorization by the European Commission, and we are in active reimbursement discussion across Europe and expect launches beginning this quarter and throughout 2026.

Finally, moving to cardiometabolic health, Zepbound and Mounjaro both posted a strong global performance. Beginning outside the U.S. Mounjaro performance was robust. We have now launched in 55 countries and all major markets. We have seen a strong reception globally and have gained significant share in most major markets as a result. While obesity reimbursement remains limited internationally, we are encouraged by the strong uptake. Approximately 75% of Mounjaro revenue outside the U.S. is coming from people with obesity, paying out of pocket, demonstrating a high level of clinical need and high willingness to pay.

Moving to the U.S., Zepbound prescription tripled in Q3 2025 compared to the same period last year. While the impact of the CVS template formulary change was disruptive to patients and physicians, the impact on Zepbound performance was modest. Share of total U.S. prescription in the branded anti-obesity market declined by approximately 2 percentage points compared to Q2 2025. However, performance is back to Q2 levels and Zepbound exited Q3 with 71% share of new prescriptions. We saw strong uptake of Zepbound in vials, which comprise approximately 30% of total U.S. Zepbound prescriptions and over 45% of new prescriptions in Q3.

Mounjaro posted robust Q3 in the U.S. as total prescriptions grew by over 60%. Mounjaro also gained share of market in the type 2 diabetes incretin analog market, increasing by 4 percentage points compared to Q2 2025. Mounjaro is the most widely prescribed incretin for people with type 2 diabetes in the U.S. As shown on Slide 10, the combined U.S. incretin analog market growth was strong, increasing by 36% in Q3 compared to the same period in 2024. Lilly incretin gained share of market compared to Q2 2025 and approximately 2 out of every 3 new prescriptions in the incretin analog market is a Lilly medicine.

On Slide 11, we provide an update on capital allocation. Moving to Slide 12. We share our updated expectations for Lilly's 2025 financial results. Based on the strong underlying performance and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, we are increasing the midpoint of our revenue range by over $2 billion and now anticipate our full year revenue will be between $63 billion and $63.5 billion. Given our updated expectations for revenue growth and performance margin over the first 9 months of the year, we now expect non-GAAP performance margin to be between 45% and 46% of revenue. At the bottom line, we have increased our outlook for non-GAAP earnings per share and expect EPS of $23 to $23.70. Now I will turn the call over to Dan to highlight our progress on R&D.

Daniel Skovronsky
EVP, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Research Laboratories & Lilly immunology

Thanks, Lucas. Lilly R&D had another productive quarter. I'll summarize progress by therapeutic area, beginning with cardiometabolic health. Since our last call, we announced results from 4 additional positive Phase III trials for orforglipron. Of note, one of those trials was attained too, in people with both obesity and type 2 diabetes. As a reminder, patients with obesity and type 2 diabetes are less responsive to weight loss on GLP-1 monotherapy than those without type 2 diabetes. For example, in the STEP-2 clinical trial of people with obesity and type 2 diabetes, semaglutide at 2.4 milligrams and 1 milligram resulted in 10.6% weight loss and 7.6% weight loss, respectively.

As shown on Slide 13, ATTAIN-2 demonstrated 10.5% weight loss and 7.8% weight loss at the 36-milligram and 24-milligram doses of orforglipron, respectively, aligned with our goal to deliver efficacy similar to injectable GLP-1 monotherapy in an easy-to-use daily pill. This trial completed the clinical package required to initiate global regulatory submissions for the treatment of obesity. These submissions are beginning imminently, and we anticipate launching orforglipron in the U.S. for treatment of obesity next year. We also made great progress on orforglipron for type 2 diabetes since the last call, with positive results from ACHIEVE-2 and ACHIEVE-3. Orforglipron demonstrated superior glycemic control and weight loss compared to dapagliflozin and ACHIEVE-2 and compared to oral semaglutide and ACHIEVE-3.

As shown on Slide 14, in ACHIEVE-3, both the 12-milligram and 36-milligram doses of orforglipron were superior to the highest available dose of oral semaglutide on both A1c reduction and on weight loss. People taking orforglipron saw an average A1c reduction of 2.2% from baseline and lost nearly 20 pounds on the highest dose of orforglipron. We also announced results from ACHIEVE-5 which demonstrate that orforglipron has the potential to provide benefit as an add-on therapy to titrated insulin glargine. With 4 positive Phase III diabetes trials now completed, we believe orforglipron has the potential to be a foundational treatment for type 2 diabetes. We now await results from ACHIEVE-4, which will trigger submission of orforglipron for treatment of type 2 diabetes anticipated in the first half of 2026.

With data from over 8,000 participants across 6 completed Phase III orforglipron trials, we've observed benefits across multiple cardiometabolic health measures as well as consistent safety and tolerability. Overall, orforglipron has delivered a profile consistent with our goal of developing an oral and scalable small molecule GLP-1 with efficacy, safety and tolerability comparable to injectable monotherapy GLP-1s for treatment of obesity and type 2 diabetes. Outside of the core registrational programs for these 2 important indications, we have several additional ongoing Phase III orforglipron trials shown on Slides 15 and 16, including new Phase III starts for treatment of osteoarthritis pain and for treatment of stress urinary incontinence, a new indication that we think could benefit from weight loss seen with orforglipron.

The next study to read out will be ATTAIN-MAINTAIN, a Phase III study of weight loss maintenance. This study is the first of its kind. It's designed to measure the impact of switching from injectable semaglutide or injectable tirzepatide to oral orforglipron. Our goal in this novel trial is to measure what level of weight loss patients can maintain after switching from an injectable incretin to orforglipron. Since the patients in this trial were previously escalated to a maximal tolerated dose of semaglutide or tirzepatide and treated for 72 weeks, this is a very ambitious trial.

For those people switching from tirzepatide, maintaining weight loss after switching to orforglipron is a high bar given the strong efficacy of tirzepatide as a dual incretin agonist. As this trial includes moving patients off of an active therapy onto a placebo maintenance arm ATTAIN-MAINTAIN allows patients who are randomized to placebo to switch to orforglipron as a rescue therapy if weight regain exceeds a specified threshold. This will be a rich data package, and we look forward to seeing the results in the coming months, either late this year or early next year.

Moving to retatrutide, our GIP GLP-1 glucagon triple agonist. We expect results from up to 6 Phase III studies by the end of 2026 to support the obesity and related complications program called TRIUMPH and the type 2 diabetes program called TRANSCEND. With its first-of-a-kind triple acting mechanism, we expect retatrutide can deliver deeper and more rapid weight loss than existing obesity medicines even more than tirzepatide. Of course, not all patients may need this potentially very high level of efficacy. And we believe retatrutide will likely be best suited for patients with a very high BMI or with obesity-related complications that require a high degree of weight loss. While the global development program for retatrutide includes people with a broad range of BMIs, spanning across overweight and obesity, we anticipate we'll be focused on the clinical profile of this medicine in patients where the clinical needs are at the highest.

The first trial to readout TRIUMPH-4 compares retatrutide to placebo in patients with obesity and knee osteoarthritis pain. This 68-week study is designed primarily as a pain relief study to support an indication for treatment of knee osteoarthritis pain in combination with other trials in the TRIUMPH program. We look forward to sharing top line results from TRIUMPH-4 later this year. Given this is the first Phase III trial for retatrutide, we'll be cautious not to over extrapolate from these results. We have 7 more Phase III trials reading out in 2026 and 2027 and we'll likely need to see data from at least a few of these before we more fully understand the profile of this medicine across a wide range of patients. For the obesity indication specifically, we look forward to results from 3 additional Phase III studies in the second half of 2026.

Moving now to muvalaplin, which is our once-daily oral small molecule inhibitor of lipoprotein(a) or Lp(a). Lp(a) is a biomarker associated with increased cardiovascular risk. In Phase II, muvalaplin demonstrated over 85% reduction of this biomarker at the highest dose compared to placebo. Based on these data, we've now initiated a Phase III study in people with elevated Lp(a) levels and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, known as the MOVE-Lp(a) trial. Muvalaplin is the first small molecule approach to Lp(a) and our second program in Phase III development against this important target.

In other updates from cardiometabolic health, we submitted our once-weekly insulin called insulin efsitora alfa in the U.S. for treatment of type 2 diabetes and we announced plans to initiate 2 Phase III trials with baricitinib in type 1 diabetes. From the early phase portfolio, we look forward to presenting Phase II data from our selective amylin agonist eloralintide at Obesity Week in November.

Moving to oncology. We're very pleased to have received U.S. FDA approval of imlunestrant under the brand name Inluriyo as a monotherapy for ER-positive, HER2-negative, ESR1 mutated metastatic breast cancer. Imlunestrant is also being studied in an ongoing Phase III trial called EMBER-4, which compares imlunestrant to the standard of care endocrine therapy in high-risk early breast cancer. This 8,000-patient trial is the largest oncology trial we've ever conducted, and it is on track to be fully enrolled by early 2026. The positive results in the metastatic setting provided an important signal that imlunestrant could have a role in early breast cancer, where we believe an oral SERD could have the largest patient impact.

Also in oncology, we top lined the study readout from the third positive Phase III trial of pirtobrutinib in the BRUIN CLL development program. In BRUIN CLL-313, a trial of pirtobrutinib compared to chemoimmunotherapy in treatment naive CLL/SLL, pirtobrutinib demonstrated a highly statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in progression-free survival. Pirtobrutinib demonstrated the most compelling effect size ever observed for a single BTK inhibitor in a treatment-naive CLL study compared to this comparator. We look forward to sharing these data at an upcoming medical meeting. As we continue to build evidence supporting the potential role for pirtobrutinib in treatment-naive CLL, we expect these data in combination with BRUIN CLL-314 to form the basis of regulatory submissions globally.

We also presented updates from our early-stage oncology portfolio at the recent European Society for Medical Oncology meeting, including data on our mutant-selective PI3-kinase alpha inhibitor for people with advanced breast cancer and PI3 kinase alpha mutations, our folate-receptor alpha antibody drug conjugate for treatment of ovarian cancer vepugratinib, our FGFR3 selective inhibitor for FGFR3 altered metastatic bladder cancer. We continue to be encouraged by the emerging clinical profiles we've observed across each of these 3 programs. And we plan to initiate Phase III trials for these medicines in 2026, if not sooner.

In Neuroscience, we received the EU marketing authorization for Kisunla. Importantly, this approval came with the modified titration dosing in the label, which is also approved in the U.S. and now approved in Japan. The modified dosing schedule is thus approved in most major geographies and we're pleased that it's being used to further lower the risk of ARIA. Our Phase III trial with remternetug is also progressing well, and we've now completed enrollment in TRAILRUNNER-ALZ 3 which is evaluating subcutaneous remternetug in treatment of preclinical Alzheimer's disease with a similar time-to-event design as we are pursuing with the ongoing TRAILRUNNER 3 ALZ trial for donanemab.

Separately, we're pleased to announce that we've initiated our Phase III program in alcohol use disorder with brenipatide, the GIP/GLP-1 dual agonist that we believe could have the optimal properties for neuroscience indications. Growing evidence from real-world clinical studies suggest that incretin therapies may reduce cravings, an observation that is supported by nonclinical studies that show decreased dopamine release in reward pathways after treatment with incretin therapy. Given the data we've observed thus far with brenipatide, we believe it has the potential to treat a range of diseases. We expect to initiate several additional Phase II and Phase III trials in the coming months, including testing this medicine in important but extremely challenging unmet medical needs, such as opioid use disorder.

In addition to neuroscience applications, we will test brenipatide in immunologic disease including a Phase II trial in asthma, which has recently begun enrolling patients. Also in immunology, new data were presented for lebrikizumab at the 2025 Fall Clinical Dermatology Conference. Lebrikizumab delivered durable disease control in people with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis, when dosing was reduced from once every 4 weeks to once every 8 weeks, reducing the number of maintenance doses to as few as 6 doses per year could provide flexibility and reduce the treatment burden on patients.

We've now submitted these data to the FDA for a potential label update and continue to explore opportunities for even less frequent dosing of this medicine for people with atopic dermatitis. While we continue to pursue innovative modalities across several immunological disorders, we're also developing combination therapies with the potential to deliver differentiated efficacy. We recently began 2 new studies combining mirikizumab with tirzepatide in people with ulcerative colitis and people with Crohn's disease. These 2 new studies complement the previously initiated TOGETHER studies of ixekizumab plus tirzepatide in people with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. We expect the first data from the TOGETHER trials to read out in the next 6 months.

Slide 16 shows additional milestones and updates to our clinical portfolio. It has been a very productive period since our last earnings call, and we still have an ambitious R&D agenda for the last 2 months of 2025.

Slide 17 shows the remaining list of potential key events expected yet this year. I'll now turn the call back to Dave for some closing remarks.

David Ricks
Chairman, CEO & President

Thanks a lot, Dan. A lot to talk about there in the pipeline. We're pleased with all the progress in 2025, and we've had another quarter of really strong execution both in driving the business results and making investments that will help us discover and develop new Lilly medicines to help more people around the world.

Now I'll turn the call over to Mike, who will moderate our Q&A session. Mike?

Mike Czapar
Director of Investor Relations

Yes. Thanks, Dave. We'd like to take questions from as many callers as possible. So consistent with prior quarters, we will respond to 1 question per caller and end the call probably by 11. If you have more than 1 question, you can enter the queue, and we will get to you as time allows. Paul, please provide instructions for the Q&A and then we're ready for the first caller.