Lockheed Martin Corporation (LMT) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Maria Lee - VP, Treasurer & Investor Relations
James Taiclet - Chairman, President & CEO
Evan Scott - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Scott Mikus - Melius Research LLC
Richard Safran - Seaport Research Partners
Kristine Liwag - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Douglas Harned - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Robert Stallard - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
Gautam Khanna - TD Cowen, Research Division
Myles Walton - Wolfe Research, LLC
Michael Ciarmoli - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Gavin Parsons - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome, everyone, to the Lockheed Martin Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Maria Ricciardone, Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Maria Lee
VP, Treasurer & Investor Relations

Thanks, Sarah. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to welcome you to our Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Joining me today on the call are Jim Taiclet, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Evan Scott, our Chief Financial Officer.

Statements made today that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of federal securities laws. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Please see Lockheed Martin's SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements.

We posted charts on the website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments. These charts also include information regarding non-GAAP measures that may be used in today's call. Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jim.

James Taiclet
Chairman, President & CEO

Thanks, Maria. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter and full year 2025 earnings call. As you saw in our press release this morning, 2025 marked unprecedented demand for Lockheed Martin's industry-leading defense technologies. We finished the year with record high backlog of $194 billion, about 2.5x annual sales and delivered 6% year-over-year sales growth. We also generated free cash flow of $6.9 billion, which was above our prior expectation and after we prefunded our pension at almost $900 million. We also made a significant $3.5 billion investment in capital and independent research and development in support of transformative innovation and increased production capacity. This strong financial performance is a direct result of our team's relentless focus on operational execution.

Some examples of this from 2025, including delivering a 191 F-35 fighter jets, 620 PAC-3 MSE interceptors, both record numbers. We also pioneered over-the-air updates to the Aegis Weapon System for real-time battlefield advantages using AI and successfully launched GPS III in Tranche 1 Transport Layer satellites to strengthen national security architectures and space. This is what you can expect from Lockheed Martin, continued significant investment to advance technology development and produce proven major weapon systems at ever greater scale.

We built on this momentum with a powerful start to 2026. Lockheed Martin products once again proved critical to the U.S. military's most demanding missions. The recent Operation Absolute Resolve included F-35 and F-22 fighter jets, RQ-170 Sentinel Stealth drones and Sikorsky Black Hawk helicopters, which helped ensure mission success while bringing the men and women of our armed forces home safely.

In addition, we worked closely with the Department of War leadership to reach the landmark 7-year framework agreement for PAC-3 MSE interceptors that we together announced earlier in January. This groundbreaking agreement was just the first step in bringing commercial business practices to large-scale production within the defense industrial base. And progress continues as we just announced this morning, a similar framework agreement for the THAAD interceptor along with additional systems from our industry colleagues also being discussed this week.

As the first implementation of such a long-term multiyear agreement, the PAC-3 MSE will increase annual production capacity from approximately 600 to 2,000 per year. That's more than tripling the production rate to support U.S. forces, allies and partner nations in today's increasingly unsettled geopolitical environment. These types of agreements fully support the Department of War's Acquisition Transformation Strategy, and we look forward to continuing our partnership with the U.S. government to definitize the contract and unleash a renewed era of innovation, accountability and execution across the defense industrial base.

In fact, I'm in Camden, Arkansas today, which is where we build PAC-3 MSE missiles and other munitions. Lockheed Martin has produced more than 700,000 missiles and rockets here in Camden. We've been steadily increasing PAC-3 MSE production since 2023, more than 60% over the last 2 years alone. And the progress we've already made will give us the critical head start in ramping up to 2,000 per year. And further, we intend to make a multibillion-dollar investment to accelerate munition production over the next 3 years, including building facilities across 5 states, such as in Camden, Arkansas, with a brand-new munitions acceleration center facility breaking ground today.

I was also recently in Fort Worth with Secretary of War, Pete Hegseth, visiting the F-35 production line as part of his Arsenal of Freedom industry tour. The visit underscored Lockheed Martin's role in driving acquisition transformation and delivering critical capabilities to the U.S. and its allies. Our mile-long Fort Worth facility employs more than 19,000 people and over 1,900 suppliers across the United States contribute to the F-35 supply chain, providing skilled jobs to many thousands more Americans nationwide. Together, these talented Lockheed Martin and supplier employees enable an F-35 production rate that is 5x faster than any other allied fighter currently in production, highlighting the program's scale and maturity.

With regard to our 2026 financial outlook, we expect year-over-year sales growth to be approximately 5% at the midpoint, with the year-over-year reported segment operating profit growth to be more than 25%. Free cash flow is anticipated to be in the range of $6.5 billion to $6.8 billion, which is well above our prior expectation and includes a year-over-year increase in investment of about 35%, with capital and independent research and development approaching $5 billion in 2026, which is a step function increase in internal investment. Given the size and scope of Lockheed Martin, in 2026, we will continue our disciplined and dynamic approach to capital allocation, enabling the step function increase in internal investment to fund capacity and growth. Evan will provide more detail on our 2026 outlook in a moment.

Turning to our programs and highlights. First, on the F-35 and during the fourth quarter, we delivered 48 F-35 aircraft, bringing total deliveries in 2025, as I said, to 191, beating our own expectation. As noted earlier, Lockheed Martin ended the year with record backlog, and the largest awards in the quarter were with the F-35 program. We definitized Lot 18 and 19 contract with the Department of War's Joint Program Office. We were awarded the fiscal year '26 air vehicle sustainment contract, and we received a contract modification in support of Lots 20 and 21 production aircraft. These awards totaled over $15 billion and reinforce the continued demand for the most advanced fighter jet by both domestic and global customers.

For example, in October, Belgium's first F-35A aircraft to be stationed in country arrived at Florennes Air Base, marking the F-35's official incorporation into the Belgian Air Force. In December, senior U.S. and Finnish officials gathered at our Fort Worth facility to celebrate the rollout of Finland's first F-35. In 2026, we will make further investments in the program to advance its position as the world's most capable, multi-role fighter with a focus on making further progress on Block 4 capability improvements. We've also committed to an additional $1 billion of strategic internal investment for the F-35 with an emphasis on the aircraft sustainment system to improve mission capable rates across the fleet. This is an absolute priority for us and one we are working closely with the Department of War.

Also at Aeronautics, we are making investments in the most advanced technologies such as unmanned systems. At Lockheed Martin Skunk Works with industry partners in the U.S. Air Force, we together demonstrated the capability to control a drone wingman from the cockpit of an F-22, the first time ever that a fifth-generation fighter showed the ability to control an uncrewed vehicle in flight together. Further at Skunk Works and in partnership with NASA, we successfully completed the first flight of the experimental X-59 aircraft in October. This is a revolutionary quiet subsonic aircraft designed to pave the way for a faster commercial air travel even over land.

At MFC, we continue to experience unprecedented demand across many critical munitions. We were awarded a contract for 31 THAAD interceptors and secured the largest production contract to date for the infrared search and track IRST21 Block II pod system. This brings fifth-generation sensors and data links to fourth-generation aircraft.

At RMS in November, Secretary Hegseth remotely piloted an autonomous Black Hawk from DARPA headquarters. This AI-enabled unmanned helicopter technology will enable critical missions such as contested logistics, air evacuation and even wildfire fighting without putting pilots and air crews at risk. And speaking of amazing technology, we successfully used the shipboard laser system, Lockheed Martin's HELIOS, to knock an incoming UAV right out of the sky. The HELIOS weapon system successfully neutralized four drone threats in the U.S. Navy-operated counter UAS zone demonstration at sea, showcasing an opportunity to eliminate drone attacks using lasers and saving U.S. and allied air defense missiles for more advanced threats. This development of laser weapon systems is just one example of Lockheed Martin's support of the Homeland Defense mission, including Golden Dome for America.

We also continue to collaborate with government and industry in our prototyping environment at our Center for Innovation in Virginia to support the command and control aspects of Golden Dome. We're also, as mentioned earlier, making substantial investments to rapidly increase production capacity across missiles, sensor suites, battle management systems and satellites, as well as the rapid development of space-based interceptors that will be directly relevant to achieving the overall objective for Golden Dome.

Also in the quarter, the Space Development Agency awarded Lockheed Martin Space, a contract for 18 satellites for its Tranche 3 Tracking Layer constellation with a potential value of more than $1 billion. These satellites will provide next-generation missile tracking capabilities for the SDA's Proliferated Warfighter Space Architecture. Finally, on the U.S. defense budget, as the FY '26 appropriations process unfolds amid this dynamic geopolitical environment, there continues to be broad support for national defense initiatives from the administration, the Department of War and Congress. Lockheed Martin's core programs remain fundamental to defense priorities, such as PAC-3 missiles for Homeland Security and for Forward [ Force ] security as well, the F-35 fighter jet for air dominance, the CH-53K heavy-lift helicopter for contested logistics, and the fleet ballistic missile for the nuclear triad.

We remain fully focused on converting our backlog and partnering with our U.S. customers as well across defense and commercial industry to deliver the systems and solutions necessary for global security and deterrence and to keep our soldiers, sailors, airmen and guardians safe in doing their missions.

I'll now turn it over to Evan before we take your questions.

Evan Scott
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you, Jim, and good morning, everyone. Today, I'll provide an overview of our consolidated financial results for the fourth quarter and full year, then hand off to Maria, who will cover business area details, and I'll come back at the end to discuss the outlook. 2025 was a transformative year for Lockheed Martin. Backlog grew $17.3 billion or 17% and included significant awards for key programs such as F-35, PAC-3, JASSM and LRASM and CH-53K, providing better visibility through the end of the decade. We generated over $9 billion of underlying operating cash flow before making $860 million of discretionary pension contributions, and we took the necessary steps to reduce risk on Aeronautics and Sikorsky programs in the second quarter, positioning these programs to deliver much needed capabilities to our customers.

Moving to Chart 4. Fourth quarter consolidated sales were $20.3 billion, up 9%, with strong year-over-year growth coming from all four business areas as our core programs continue to build momentum and the much anticipated growth inflection begins to take shape. Next, segment operating profit of $2.1 billion in the quarter was up considerably year-over-year due to the charges on the Aeronautics and MFC classified programs in the fourth quarter of last year. Segment operating profit margins were 10.1% in the quarter. As we expected, program milestone timing and life cycles led to a light quarter of favorable profit rate adjustments.

We generated $5.80 of earnings per share in the quarter, which included a noncash nonoperating charge of $479 million related to the follow-on pension transaction, partially offset by $109 million benefit due to the favorable resolution of tax accounting issues. On a year-over-year basis, EPS was up significantly due to the prior year charges. Shifting to cash. We generated $2.8 billion of free cash flow in the fourth quarter as we continue to rapidly deliver capabilities to customers, achieving operational milestones that triggered strong cash receipts.

Moving to Chart 5 and the full year. Sales of $75 billion were up 6%, driven by strong growth at Missiles and Fire Control, Aeronautics and Space. Segment operating profit of $6.7 billion grew approximately 11% year-over-year. Recall, both periods included significant charges. On a normalized basis, segment operating profit grew in line with sales. Regarding new business, the company have recorded over $65 billion in orders during the second half of the year, bringing the full year book-to-bill to 1.2, resulting in a record backlog of $194 billion to end 2025, the fourth consecutive year of backlog growth. This demonstrates the resilient global demand for Lockheed Martin's capabilities.

Our earnings per share was $21.49 in 2025, down 4% from the prior year. While our sales growth and slightly higher reported margins drove segment profits higher, this was more than offset by below-the-line items, including increased interest expense, a higher tax rate and higher operating FAS/CAS expense. Shifting to cash, the strong fourth quarter collections exceeded our prior expectations, helping us to deliver over $6.9 billion of free cash flow in 2025. And we reinvested $3.6 billion back into the business to drive innovation into our solutions and more rapidly scale technologies for our customers.

Now I'll turn it over to Maria.

Maria Lee
VP, Treasurer & Investor Relations

Thanks, Evan. Starting with Aeronautics on Chart 6. Fourth quarter sales at Aero increased 6% year-over-year, primarily driven by higher sales on classified programs due to the absence of losses recognized in Q4 of 2024. Higher volume and favorable contract mix for the F-35 program also contributed to the increase. Adjusting for the impacts of the classified program charges and the C-5 contract resolution benefit in last year's fourth quarter, the adjusted sales growth at Aero was approximately 4% year-over-year in the quarter. Segment operating profit increased 80% compared to Q4 2024, driven by higher profit booking rate adjustments due to the absence of classified reach-forward losses recognized in last year's fourth quarter. Higher sales volume in Q4 of 2025 also contributed to the year-over-year increase. Adjusting for the classified charges and the C-5 claim resolution benefit in Q4 of last year, Aero operating profit year-over-year increased slightly in the quarter.

For the full year, sales increased 6% to $30.3 billion, driven by higher F-35 production and sustainment volume, partially offset by lower volume on classified programs. Full year segment operating profit at Aero decreased 17%, driven by lower profit booking rate adjustments related to the classified program's reach-forward losses and unfavorable profit adjustments on C-130 in 2025. This was partially offset by the higher sales volume. Adjusted for the classified program losses in both years, Aero segment operating profit growth was 4% in 2025.

Aero's segment operating profit margin was 6.9% for full year 2025. Adjusted for the classified program losses, Aero's segment operating profit margin was 9.9%. The photo to the right depicts the successfully completed first flight of the X-59 quiet supersonic aircraft, as Jim previously mentioned.

Turning to Missiles and Fire Control, Chart 7. Sales at MFC in the quarter increased 18% from the prior year, driven by higher volumes from production ramps for Precision Fires programs and existing PAC-3 contracts. Segment operating profit in Q4 increased by $1.3 billion year-over-year to $535 million, primarily from the absence of the loss recognized on a classified program in the fourth quarter of 2024. The higher sales volume also contributed to the increase. For the full year, MFC sales increased by 14% to $14.5 billion due to production ramps on JASSM/LRASM and Precision Fires programs as well as existing PAC-3 contracts.

Full year segment operating profit increased by $1.6 billion year-over-year, primarily driven by the absence of the $1.4 billion loss recognized on a classified program in 2024 as well as the higher sales volume. MFC's segment operating profit margin for the full year 2025 was 13.8%. You can see on the right the photo of a high-mobility artillery rocket system mobile rocket launcher, HIMARS. On November 5, we delivered the 750th HIMARS.

Shifting to Rotary and Mission Systems on Chart 8. Sales at RMS increased 8% year-over-year in the quarter, primarily from higher volume at Integrated Warfare Systems and Sensors, IWSS, radar programs and River Class Destroyer, formerly known as Canadian Surface Combatant. Higher production volume on Sikorsky Black Hawk programs also contributed to the increase. Operating profit in the fourth quarter decreased 9% year-over-year, mainly due to unfavorable profit adjustments on Black Hawk programs and the absence of a benefit from an intellectual property license arrangement that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2024. This decrease was partially offset by the higher sales volume.

For the full year, sales at RMS were comparable to 2024 at $17.3 billion. 2025 sales increased from higher production volume on Black Hawk programs at Sikorsky and the higher volume on the River Class Destroyer and radar programs at IWSS. These increases were offset by charges on the Canadian Maritime Helicopter Program, CMHP, and the Turkish Utility Helicopter Program, TUHP, that were recognized in the second quarter as well as lower volume for various training, logistics and simulation programs.

Operating profit at RMS decreased 31% for the year, driven by a $610 million decrease in profit booking rate adjustments, primarily due to the losses recognized on CMHP and TUHP in the second quarter. This decrease was partially offset by the absence of an unfavorable profit adjustment on Seahawk programs in 2024. Adjusting for the CMHP and TUHP program losses in 2025, RMS operating profit grew 3% year-over-year. RMS' segment operating profit margin was 7.6% for full year 2025. Adjusted for the CMHP and TUHP program losses, RMS segment operating profit margin was 11.3%. The photo on this page represents the fully autonomous Black Hawk helicopter, the U-Hawk.

On Chart 9, we'll conclude the business area discussion with Space. Sales increased 8% year-over-year in the fourth quarter, primarily driven by higher sales volume on strategic and missile defense programs, including the next-generation Interceptor NGI and Fleet Ballistic Missile FBM programs, as well as higher volume for the Transport Layer and Orion programs. Operating profit decreased 4% compared to Q4 2024 due to lower equity earnings from United Launch Alliance, ULA, partially offset by the higher sales volume.

Turning to the full year. Sales increased 4% to $13 billion, driven by higher volume on NGI, FBM and Orion programs, partially offset by a decrease for national security space programs due to program life cycle in the Overhead Persistent Infrared, OPIR missions. Operating profit increased 10% to $1.3 billion in 2025, primarily resulting from favorable at-complete performance on certain commercial civil space programs during the first half of the year as well as the higher overall sales volume. The increase was partially offset by lower ULA equity earnings. Space segment operating profit margin for the full year 2025 was 10.3%. To the right on this page is a photo of the Space Development Agency Tranche 3 Tracking Layer constellation, which, as Jim previously mentioned, was awarded to Lockheed Martin in the fourth quarter.

Now I'll turn it back over to Evan.

Evan Scott
Senior VP & CFO

Thanks, Maria. Turning to Chart 10 and our 2026 outlook. We expect to carry the momentum from the second half of 2025 into this year. And it's worth noting that we continue to make progress on our digital transformation, having recently completed the first migration of a business area to an upgraded enterprise resource planning system to start the year. We expect this internal investment will unlock speed and drive efficiencies across the enterprise, helping us to maintain cost and schedule for customers and create value for shareholders. In 2026, we are forecasting sales to be in the range of $77.5 billion to $80 billion, up $3.7 billion at the midpoint, implying a solid 5% organic growth year-over-year. Segment operating profit is anticipated to be in the range of $8.425 billion to $8.675 billion, resulting in a midpoint margin of 10.9%.

Before moving to EPS, I'll briefly step through some of the business area dynamics. First, Aeronautics, we expect low single-digit overall growth in 2026 with Skunk Works and F-35 sustainment leading the way, each with the potential for double-digit growth year-over-year. F-35 production will see a slight lift due to lot mix and pricing, with the production rate holding steady at 156 aircraft per year. We expect deliveries to be in line with the production rate this year. Aero margins of 9.8% at the midpoint reflect the dilutive nature of the growth in Skunk Works and from F-35 sustainment. At MFC, we estimate the ongoing missile production ramps to drive 14% year-over-year sales growth at the midpoint, with margins expected to remain consistent with 2025 levels.

Next, at RMS, we anticipate overall sales to grow in the low single-digit range, with higher growth coming from Sikorsky, driven by the CH-53K and Black Hawk programs, partially offset by program timing and life cycle headwinds on several radar and training programs. RMS margins at 10.5% at the midpoint include impacts due to portfolio mix and program life cycles. Finally, Space is projected to grow approximately 5% year-over-year at the midpoint, with strong growth expected on Fleet Ballistic Missile, NGI and hypersonic programs within the Strategic and Missile Defense Systems portion of the business, as well as solid growth from space tracking and communication missions due to the Space Development Agency's Transport and Tracking Layer programs. Space margins at the midpoint are slightly above 10% and include higher equity earnings related to ULA.

Back to the consolidated level. On earnings per share, we project a range of $29.35 to $30.25. The midpoint range is over $8 higher than 2025, primarily due to the aforementioned program and pension-related charges accounting for approximately $7 of the year-over-year improvement. The remaining upside comes from higher volume and a higher net FAS/CAS pension adjustment, partially offset by nonoperating related expenses, namely a higher tax rate.

Wrapping up with cash. Our free cash flow guidance is $6.5 billion to $6.8 billion. That estimate includes between $2.5 billion and $2.8 billion of capital expenditures as we are planning to increase our investment to support production ramps and other strategic growth opportunities. Including in this range is the initial portion of the multibillion-dollar investment for MFC's missile ramps. We expect investment will continue to be elevated going forward to meet customer demand for our munitions and the acceleration of production for these programs provides line of sight to a compound annual growth rate for MFC sales of at least double digit through the end of the decade.

One final item for awareness is the quarterly cadence for 2026. With 2024 and 2025, we had 13 weeks in every quarter. This year, there are 12 weeks in Q1 and 14 weeks in Q4 with the second and third quarters both at 13 weeks. Consistent with prior years, I expect the majority of our cash to come in the second half of the year. In summary, we're excited about the future for Lockheed Martin, and we are investing in numerous projects with the objective to improve the speed and capabilities of our company, whether that's toward innovative product development, improving internal operations or accelerating production capacity. Our goal is to create unmatched technologies to support our customers' most critical missions, execute the record backlog entrusted with us on time and within budget. And in doing so, we will generate favorable outcomes that deliver value for all stakeholders.

With that, Sarah, let's open up the call for Q&A.

