Loop Industries, Inc. (LOOP) Q3 2026 Earnings Call January 15, 2026 8:45 AM EST

Company Participants

Kevin O'Dowd - Vice President of Communications & Investor Relations
Daniel Solomita - Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO & President
Spencer Hart

Conference Call Participants

Gerard Sweeney - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Marvin Wolff - Paradigm Capital Inc., Research Division
Varyk Kutnick

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to Loop Industries Third Quarter Fiscal 2026 Corporate Update Call. [Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded today, Thursday, January 15, 2026.

The earnings release accompanying this call was issued after the market close yesterday, Wednesday, January 15, (sic) [ 14 ] 2026. On the call today are Daniel Solomita, Founder and Chief Executive Officer; Spencer Hart, Chief Financial Officer; and Kevin O'Dowd, Head of Investor Relations.

I would now like to turn the call over to Kevin O'Dowd to read the company's forward-looking statement disclaimer.

Kevin O'Dowd
Vice President of Communications & Investor Relations

Thank you, operator. Before we begin, please note that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S. securities laws. These statements relate to our expectations, projections, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events and other matters regarding future performance.

Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please refer to the Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements sections of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC and the earnings release issued after earlier today. These filings are available on the SEC's website at sec.gov or through our Investor Relations teams.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Daniel Solomita, Founder, and Chief Executive Officer of Loop Industries.

Daniel Solomita
Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO & President

Thank you very much, Kevin. Q3 was a busy quarter for Loop as we move towards the construction phase of our Infinite Loop India manufacturing facility and progressing with our partnership with Reed Societe Generale Group for our project in Europe. I'm pleased to report on several positive developments. The Infinite Loop India project is on budget and on schedule.

Before getting into the details, I want to officially welcome Spencer Hart, joining Loop as CFO. I've gotten to know Spencer well over the past year since he joined our Board of Directors. His leadership and knowledge of the capital markets and financing structures will be a great asset for Loop moving forward.

In Q3, we announced that we have executed a supply contract with Nike, the large American sports apparel company to be an anchor customer for the Infinite Loop India manufacturing facility. The contract is for Loop to supply Nike with a fixed amount of twist, our textile-to-textile polyester resin on an annual basis at a fixed price for multiple years. There's a guaranteed take-or-pay element to the contract as well, which means if Nike does not take the delivery of the material, they still have to pay us a percentage of the sales price.

We are currently in discussions with several CPG and apparel brand companies to secure additional offtake agreements. Textile-to-textile is becoming a very important growth driver as European regulations are being put in place to mandate more recycled content in clothing and recycled content from textile to textile, which means starting from a polyester textile waste and producing a new polyester textile with it. We're forcing the apparel companies to find a solution to recycling old clothing at the end of its life.

Loop's technology is uniquely suited to recycle post-consumer textile waste. Post-consumer textile waste is difficult to recycle because of the different components that go into making the clothing. You often have polyester mixed with cotton, polyester mixed with nylon, button, zippers, et cetera. And all of these components have different monomers or starting components. And for this reason, it poses a tremendous challenge to recycle.

Typical recycling is done at very high pressure, high temperature, where you're either forcing the depolymerization to be done under very extreme conditions or you're simply just melting the plastic down into a new form. And both of those do not work well for the textile industry because of the different components. And where Loop's technology overcomes that is because of our low temperature depolymerization, -- what we do is at very low temperature, we break down the polyester into the DMT and MEG. And because of the low temperature, all of the other components like the cotton, the nylon, the buttons and the zippers, they stay whole and we filter them out after the depolymerization, which gives us a huge advantage. And that's why Loop's Technology is uniquely suited to be able to process this type of clothing waste.

Our project in India is also located next to a free trade zone. So we'd be able to import the waste clothing from Europe or from other parts of the world into that free trade zone and then transport that to our facilities to help the brands in Europe be able to recycle the material that once they've collected it. So it's a really huge benefit to Loop. And this government regulation starting in 2026 and is going to start being enforced in 2028, which is exactly the right timing for us. Our plant is scheduled to be completed construction at the end of '27. So 2028 is a perfect timing for us to be able to do this.

So because of all of these regulations, we're really seeing an uptick in the demand for the textile-to-textile side. And we were on the phone the other day with a very large textile manufacturing clothing company, and they said textile-to-textile is not a nice to have anymore. It's a must-have because of the European regulation. So that's going to be a big driving force in the future.

66% of all of the PET and polyester manufactured in the world, which I believe is about 85 million tons per year, -- 85 million tons per year is coming from the polyester textile side. So it's this really a huge shift in the marketplace, which we are really uniquely suited to be able to capitalize on. And the Indian facility is perfectly located for that. Besides the low-cost manufacturing, like I said, it's near the textile hub in India, the Gujarat province, a lot of textiles. So the main feedstock we'll be using for the process is textile for the textile-to-textile. So it's really perfect timing for us and perfect timing for this Indian project.

On the engineering front, we hired Toyo, the large Japanese engineering and construction company to complete the detailed engineering, which started November 1 and runs through the construction of the plant. Toyo has a very large presence in India and has done tremendous work to date. Our engineering team is now fully deployed on working for this project and generating revenue for Loop from this project from the joint venture. So we really feel that we're in really good hands with Toyo. They're doing an excellent job, and we're excited to be working with them through the construction of the facility.

Debt syndication is moving well. We are building a syndicate of lenders for the project debt financing. We've received several term sheets for multilateral development banks, sovereign wealth funds as well as international and local commercial banks. Returns so far are in line with our expectations, and we anticipate closing the debt financing in the coming months, in line with our project schedule. So that's really the update on India.

As far as the progress with our partnership with Reed Societe Generale Group, as you know, we've licensed our -- we licensed -- we sold Reed SocGen, a license to our technology to build 1 plant in Europe. SocGen has spent time working on site selection. I believe they started with looking at 20 sites across Europe. They've narrowed it down to 3. There's 1 lead site in Germany that is being negotiated right now. And we think that should finalized very shortly, sometime probably the end of January, beginning of February, at which time we anticipate to begin generating meaningful revenue and profits from providing the engineering for that project. So the engineering and milestone payments will be over the next 3 years for the project. And we believe that, that would cover all of Loop's back-office expenses for the next several years.

Cash operating expenses for the quarter were $2.2 million, reflecting a year-over-year decrease of $1.1 million. At the end of the third quarter, we had total liquidity available of $7.7 million. In the coming quarters, this number will continue to decrease. The operating cash expenses will continue to decrease as more expenses are transferred to the joint venture in India and the project in Europe as well as we've seen some meaningful reductions in other areas of our spend -- our annual spend.

Our focus is on raising the remaining financing required for our equity contribution to ELITe and for the operating expenses until the start-up of the Indian facility. We are engaged with multiple parties regarding a financing to fund our investments in ELITe. This capital, along with anticipated engineering revenues derived from the India and European projects is expected to fund Loop's ongoing operations until its first facility becomes operational.

I'd like to turn it over to Spencer Hart now, our new CFO, and let Spencer say a few words.

Spencer Hart

Thanks, Daniel. It's nice to be on the call with you on my -- one of my first days as being CFO. As a brief introduction, I've spent over 30 years in my career in investment banking. And I've followed Loop for many years.

About a year ago, I joined the Board of Directors, and I'm a big believer in the company and Daniel and in the whole management team. I think there's an opportunity here to build a great company and create significant value in the process.

During my investment banking career, one of my areas of focus was raising equity and debt capital for my clients. And so I'm going to be very focused on supporting Daniel, raising the capital for Loop to bring us to the next stage of our strategic development. For this quarter, Daniel gave you a good update on the business. The detailed quarterly results are [indiscernible] which were filed last night.

I would just point out that the company has managed expenses very well in the third quarter, bringing cash operating expenses down over $1 million from last year's third quarter. We have opportunities to reduce that further, and some of those opportunities have already been locked in.

With that, I'll pass it back to Daniel for closing remarks.

Daniel Solomita
Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO & President

Sorry about that. Thank you very much, Spencer. In conclusion, really pleased with the progress we're making both in India and in Europe, starting to really making meaningful revenue from -- and profitability from the engineering fees in Europe and in India, or are you going to be able to sustain our back office spend for the many years coming. So that's all really positive development for us. And we're really confident in the financing as well. So looking forward to getting all this done in this quarter.

With that, I'll open it up for questions.

