Lotus Technology Inc. (LOT) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 24, 2025 7:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Michelle Ma
Daxue Wang - Chief Financial Officer
Feng Qingfeng - CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Xinran Li - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Lotus Technology, Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.

I'd now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Ms. Michelle Ma, head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Michelle Ma

Thank you, Amber. Welcome to Lotus Tech's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. My name is Michelle Ma, the Head of Investor Relations here at Lotus. With me today are CEO, Mr. Qingfeng Feng; and CFO, Dr. Daxue Wang. Our conference call materials were issued today and are available on our Investor Relations website. We are also broadcasting this call via webcast. Before we continue, please be reminded that today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. As such, the company's actual results may be materially different from the views expressed today. Further information regarding risks and uncertainties is included in relevant filings of Lotus Tech with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required under applicable law.

Please also note that our earnings press release and this conference call will include disclosure of unaudited GAAP financial information as well as unaudited non-GAAP financial measures. You can also find a reconciliation of these figures in the press release available on our Investor Relations website at ir.group/lotus.com.

With that, I'm delighted to turn the call over to our CFO, Dr. Wang, please.

Daxue Wang
Chief Financial Officer

Good morning, good afternoon and good evening all our shareholders, analysts and friends from the media. Thank you for joining us for Lotus' Q3 2025 earnings release. I'm Daxue Wang, Chief Financial Officer of Lotus, and it's my privilege once again to present the company's unaudited financial results.

In the third quarter, the company delivered nearly 1,800 vehicles to distributors, which represents a 35% decrease year-on-year, but a 28% increase quarter-on-quarter. As a result, total delivery of the first 9 months of the year reached 4,612 units, up 40% compared to the same period last year. These figures reflect the transitional period characterized by the impact of tariffs, gradual destocking activities and the phased commencement of the gradual upgraded module deliveries.

Revenue for the third quarter was $137 million, down 46% year-on-year, but up 10% sequentially. Revenues for the first 9 months totaled $356 million, down 45% year-on-year. Gross margin improved 8% in the third quarter, up 3 percentage points from the previous quarter and 5 percentage points from the same period last year. This improvement was driven by a favorable shift in our sales mix towards upgraded models, reflecting higher inventory dynamics and continued recovery in our underlying profitability. Gross margin for the first 9 months remained stable compared to the same period in 2024, safely in a positive territory.

Now allow me to break down our sales by categories and regions. The category Lifestyle vehicles accounted for 77% of the total deliveries in Q3, down from 83% in Q2. Consequently, they contributed 72% of the total deliveries for the first 9 months of the year. And in terms of regions, deliveries in the U.S. sports car market began a gradual recovery in the third quarter. This improvement came after the initial U.S. U.K. tariff disruptions were resolved with U.K. vehicles ultimately securing a favorable tariff rate of 10%.

Overall, deliveries in the first 9 months of 2025 were primarily driven by China and Europe. It's worth noting that our delivery growth in China for the first 9 months outpaced the broader premium auto segment in the country. This underscores the competitive strengths of our product portfolio in an increasingly challenging environment.

Now let me turn to the key financials. I have already covered deliveries, revenue and gross margin. Now let see the other financial metrics. The cost of revenue decreased by 35% year-on-year to $126 million in Q3 and a total of $325 million for the first 9 months of 2025. This resulted in a gross profit of $11 million for the quarter, and $29 million for the first 9 months. We reported an operating loss of $95 million in the third quarter, a 41% improvement year-on-year. The net loss for the quarter was $65 million, up 68% improvement year-on-year.

For the first 9 months, the operating loss was $357 million, narrowing by 40% year-on-year, while the net loss narrowed to $378 million, down 43% year-on-year. And for your reference, on a non-GAAP adjusted basis, the net loss for the first 9 months were $2 million lower, primarily due to the impact of the share-based compensation. And adjusted EBITDA under the non-GAAP for the same period narrowed by 48% year-on-year to $294 million.

Beyond these numbers, I would like to reiterate that we have now reduced operating expenses for 8 consecutive quarters through value-added measures. This underscores our strong commitment to enhancing operational efficiency. Our efforts in cost discipline and inventory optimization are reflected in the significantly narrowed loss for both the quarter and year-to-date. We remain focused on prudent resource allocation and margin enhancement, while also preparing for a more dynamic operating environment in the quarters ahead.

During the third quarter, we achieved several key milestones and made challenges posed by the fierce market competition. We will be awaiting our new PHEV model in the coming months to further expand our electrification product road map and address consumer demand in diversified power train segments. Our CEO, Mr. Feng, will elaborate further on these developments.

With that, I will now turn the floor over to Mr. Feng. Thank you.

Feng Qingfeng
CEO & Director

[Interpreted]

Good morning, good afternoon, everyone. I am Qingfeng Feng, CEO of Lotus Tech. Thank you for joining the Lotus Tech Quarter 3 2025 Earnings Call. Now I'd like to walk you through the company's latest progress across four key areas: recent highlights; market strategy; product portfolio; and the acquisition of Lotus U.K.

For Lotus with a 77-year track DNA, it is important to keep enhancing its global image. On September 5, Lotus made a strong appearance at IAA Mobility 2025 in Germany, showcasing the concept car Theory 1, Eletre, Emeya and Emira demonstrating a seamless blend of a brand legacy cutting-edge technology and electric strategy.

To carry over Lotus' racing track DNA, the 2025 Lotus Cup One-Make Racing Series kicked off in June, featuring our international lineup of drivers. The third round concluded successfully in Chengdu with the season finale set to take place in Sepang International Circuit in Malaysia this month.

On September 14, during the London Design Festival. Lotus served as the official automotive partner and opened an immersive exhibition at our Mayfair showroom, exploring the design DNA of the brand, and we received positive feedback from the public.

On November 16, drivers Lu Wenlong and Liu Kai Shun piloted the Emira GT4 to claim the first and third place in the Macau Grand Prix in the Greater Bay Area GT cup. This marks back-to-back podiums for the Emira GT4 following its first and second place finish in the same event in 2023.

The Macau circuit is known for its long straights and tight-twisting corners, is regarded one of the most challenging street circuits. This double podium not only highlights the driver exceptional skill, but also underscores the outstanding performance and reliability of Emira GT4. It strengthens customers' trust and enthusiasm of our sports car and it also carries over Lotus' racing track DNA.

For our market strategy, Lotus continues to optimize our global presence and in-house our retail efficiency. As of the end of September, we had 213 retail stores worldwide. We have a well-balanced distribution across four key regions. Europe, we had 70 shops, China 54, North America 49 and other markets 40. Those covers roughly 45 markets globally.

Besides the retail channel efficiency improvement, we've also explored other measures to reduce our costs and improve our efficiency. For example, we've implemented prudent cost countermeasures and optimized our store portfolio. This includes relocating high cost of stores, closing underperforming locations and expanding high-efficiency outlets. It helped boost our conversion rates while reducing operating costs.

In addition to that, we've also relocated our European headquarters from the Netherlands back to the U.K. cutting operational expenses and allowing us to focus resources on key markets. Returning to Lotus' birth place also help us retell the brand story and the strength in our reach across Europe and beyond. Such measures further improve our overall efficiency.

We are also preparing to enter new markets, starting with Brazil. Brazil is the seventh automotive sales country. In 2024, the total sales was roughly around 2 million with new energy vehicle penetration rate around 8%. Ending the first 9 months of this year, the total sales reached 1.44 million units with the penetration rate of new energy vehicle increased to 10.1%.

As for our products portfolio, two years ago, we have already planned on that. Actually, we've already launched our hybrid technology and what we believe that all of you will be soon see the fruit. And for Lotus, we currently offer 2 models globally, including Emira, Eletre, Emeya, all of which were updated in 2025. The new versions have all been well received with our share of total sales continuing to grow.

We plan to introduce 2 additional hybrid models based on our new architecture. The first hybrid model is set to launch in China in the quarter 1 next year with a dedicated technology preview event in January, a European release will follow.

The new hybrid also carried our inherited Lotus DNA in the following areas. The first is the ultimate handling, thanks to Lotus tier engineering. It's also equipped with the dual-chamber air suspension and a standard 48-volt active stabilizer. It can be capable of a long range and also high performance. It is enabled by the latest architecture, delivering over 1,000 kilometers of range and 952 horsepower. It's also inherited the Inspire design featuring the sensational width to height proportion of our hypercar Evija staying true to Lotus' design DNA.

The introduction of hybrid models offers more choice for luxury vehicle buyers and will help us to expand into broader markets, including regions with slower EV adoption, such as Italy and Spain and Saudi Arabia. It will also help us to attract the new customer segments.

And for the acquisition of Lotus U.K., we are now making steady progress on the merger or the acquisition of Lotus U.K., which we expect to complete in 2026.

After the acquisition, we are going to operate under our One Lotus strategy. We plan to maintain a consistent global identity as a high-performance premium luxury brand to strengthen worldwide recognition and to maximizing our heritage.

We are also streamlining reporting lines and to enable faster, clearer decision-making, a globally aligned governance model, global standards with vision of adaptation. It will improve oversight and support medium- to long-term strategy execution.

For our business integration, we are driving synergy across the key areas. On R&D, we consolidate global engineering under 1 team to improve efficiency, share technology and accelerating new vehicle development. On purchasing, we leverage shared sourcing to reduce costs across lifestyle vehicles and sports cars. And on logistics, we will optimize warehousing and parts distribution to further lower costs. We have also aligned the channels and a system globally to eliminate duplication and boost the brand value and operational activeness.

Thank you. We will now open the line for your questions.