Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Laura Li from Deutsche Bank.

Xinran Li
Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division

Could you elaborate a little bit more about the key highlights of the upcoming PHEV models? And maybe talk more about the strategic rationale behind those products?

Feng Qingfeng
CEO & Director

[Interpreted]

Thank you for your question. First, allow me to elaborate on the highlights of the features of our hybrid model. It, well, features 3 first. It has the best energy-efficient engine and also the two best performance hybrid system and also the highest power motor. Those are three features demonstrate the Lotus of DNA from both the handling and also performance perspective.

As for the details about how to further enhance its handling underperformance as well as the details of our hybrid architecture, please stay tuned to our tech preview event in January.

And also, we would like to elaborate on the strategic rationale behind our hybrid model. But first, I'd like to start with the market. For China market, the premium vehicle market in China, including plug-in hybrids and extended ranges make up a large and rapidly growing segment. Among new energy vehicles priced about RMB 400,000 about 70% are plug-in or extended range models, and growth is a major driver of the broader new energy vehicle expansion. The penetration rate of new energy vehicle in this price bucket has also risen quickly reaching over 40% from January to September with advanced plug-in and extended ranges accounted for more than 30%.

The competition in China's premium e-segment hybrid SUV is still relatively underdeveloped. The hybrid -- the premium e-segment hybrid SUV means the price of RMB 500,000. And the development is relatively under development compared to the battery electric e-segment SUV space. And most current models also lean heavily toward business or offer these. This creates a clear opening for Lotus to introduce our hybrid models.

In Europe, hybrid models represent a large, faster-growing share, both the aftermarket. But as the emission standards tightened, new energy vehicle adoption is accelerating in Europe, just as it is in China.

From January to September this year, NEVs, including battery electric vehicle, plug-in electric vehicle and hybrid electric models reached 59% or 60% of the total market. And among those, NEVs, PHEV and HEV together accounted for about 73%.

And notably, plug-in hybrids, the PHEV sales have surged in Europe. As of September this year, PHEV sales have grown year-over-year for 7 consecutive months with the EU wide sales up 65% in September alone.

In the premium hybrid segment, Lotus will be the first one to introduce such model in the EU. Last week, I visited EU, and I heard of the positive feedback from our dealers has been, they know about this hybrid model. And in the successive phase, we are going to invite dealers and also media to have an in-depth test of our new models.

Operator

Our next question comes from [ Dan Lin ] from CICC.

Unknown Analyst

Hello, this is Dan Lin from CICC Auto team. Congrats on your sequential improvements. And I have 1 question about your gross margin. Do you have any guidance on your gross margin for this year and next year?

Daxue Wang
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you so much for your question. With the recovery of the vehicle gross margin in the second half of the year, our gross margin for the full year is expected to remain at a high single-digit range. And looking ahead, our gross margin is projected to further improve primarily due to the following factors.

First, the launch of the PHEV product, which is based on our real architecture, will further reduce the per-unit vehicle costs and achieve higher gross margins. And second, as the BEV facelifted products penetrate global markets, our sales are expected to increase, thereby boosting the gross margins; and third, the implementation of the put option with Lotus U.K. will further enhance efficiency.

For instance, the Manufacturing segment's gross profit will be consolidated into the listed companies and economies of scale resulting from the integration of the supply chain and research and development will contribute to higher gross margins. So I think for the next year, we have the confidence it's going to be higher than this year. Thank you so much.

Operator

Thank you. I am showing no further questions at this time. And with that, I'll now turn the conference back to Ms. Michelle Ma for her closing comments.

Michelle Ma

Thank you all again for joining us today. We will conclude the call soon. Investor Relations team remains available to answer any further clarity you have. Please feel free to contact us through the contact information on our website. Have a great day. Thank you.

Operator

Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may now disconnect your lines.

[Portions of this transcript that are marked [Interpreted] were spoken by an interpreter present on the live call.]