The Lovesac Company (LOVE) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 11, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Caitlin Churchill - Investor Relations Executive
Shawn Nelson - Founder, CEO & Director
Mary Fox - President & COO
Keith Siegner - Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer

Conference Call Participants

Thomas Forte - Maxim Group LLC, Research Division
Michael Baker - D.A. Davidson & Co., Research Division
Eric Des Lauriers - Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, Research Division
Matt Koranda - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Brian Nagel - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings. Welcome to Lovesac Third Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Caitlin Churchill, Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Caitlin Churchill
Investor Relations Executive

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. With me on the call is Shawn Nelson, Chief Executive Officer; Mary Fox, President; and Keith Siegner, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that some of the information discussed will include forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future financial performance. These include statements about our future expectations, financial projections and our plans and prospects. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in such statements. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, you should review the company's filings with the SEC, which includes today's press release. You should not rely on our forward-looking statements as predictions of future events.

All forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions and beliefs as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update them, except as required by applicable law. Our discussion today will include non-GAAP financial measures, including EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to and not as a substitute for or in isolation from our GAAP results. A reconciliation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to such non-GAAP financial measure has been provided as supplemental financial information in our press release.

Now I would like to turn the call over to Shawn Nelson, Chief Executive Officer of The Lovesac Company. Shawn?

Shawn Nelson
Founder, CEO & Director

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. I'll start by sharing a high-level overview of our third quarter results, provide an update on our Designed for Life product platforms and touch on our views for the remainder of the year before passing the discussion over to Mary Fox, our President. Mary will discuss our tailored customer acquisition engines and key growth enablers. Finally, Keith Siegner, our CFO, will review our financial results and provide more detail on our Q4 and fiscal 2026 outlook.

Beginning with our third quarter, macro conditions proved a little more challenging than we anticipated with consumer uncertainty leading to meaningful choppiness week-to-week, particularly in our lower dollar volume transactions. As a result, third quarter net sales were $150.2 million, about $1 million below our guidance range. While we are not happy with this outcome, it's important to note that our focus on secular growth initiatives such as new products and the beginnings of a major evolution in our marketing tactics enabled a slight year-over-year growth in net sales, reflecting market share gains as compared to our category, which we estimate declined approximately 2% for the comparable quarter and 4% year-to-date.

Adjusted EBITDA and net loss for the third quarter were within our guidance ranges, pressured by a 240 basis point decrease in gross margin resulting from increases in tariffs and transportation costs as well as increased promotional intensity, partially offset by price increases, cost savings and vendor concessions. Total omni-channel comparable net sales decreased 1.2% for the quarter, offset by contributions from new and non-comp touch points. Our balance sheet remains strong with inventory and net cash at healthy levels. And as Keith will outline later, we remain on track to end the fiscal year with a more optimized inventory carry versus the prior fiscal year and a very solid net cash balance with no borrowings.

We remained active on bringing Designed for Life product innovation. You all know about our new Snugg platform already. It has become an important part of our sales mix and in-store presentation. During the quarter, we also successfully launched our national advertising campaign for Snugg, which Mary will talk more about in a bit. But there was even more news for fourth quarter and the holiday season. We launched an exciting extension to our wildly successful Accent Chair Line with the PillowSac Chair Jr. It delivers the same cloud-like comfort premium materials and design versatility, now thoughtfully scaled for smaller settings from living rooms and apartments to bedrooms and reading nooks.

We also introduced a fourth arm option for Sactionals, the Swept Arm, taking a nod from the Snugg, where Swept Arm has been the runaway favorite style. Sactionals customers asked and we responded. The instantly popular Swept Arm brings a more modern aesthetic to the platform. A refresh of our Sactionals quick ship cover assortment and on-trend limited edition fabrics for Sacs and Footsacs round out a busy few months of new product launches at Lovesac.

Let's spend a minute on our brand evolution and strategic shifts. First, last quarter, we discussed the initial learnings from our brand evolution refresh and the implications for our strategic road map. We knew we needed to sharpen and focus our positioning to not only allow us to confidently extend this brand further, but also deeper into the categories where we already have strength. We are rebuilding our marketing playbook on the foundations laid by our new team, which should enable us to compete more vigorously for share in existing and new rooms.

Second, now 4 years into the category declines with uncertainty around the consumer remaining, it's more clear than ever that prudence mandates we should be pragmatic about modeling upside potential in this macro backdrop or even from secular initiatives in this context in the near term. We will not base our plans on expecting any recovery from the consumer or the category in the near- to medium-term. Combining these two considerations, we believe the optimal approach over the next few quarters, the strategic sweet spot is to harvest the brand that we've built to date, shoring up our place in the living room and aiming to take even more share in these realms while reinforcing our brand equity.

We see massive opportunity to ignite the core Lovesac business through Designed for Life product extensions and by leaning into the green shoots we're seeing in our customer acquisition engines coming off the brand evolution work already. So what does this mean? I'm excited to share more details because we expect calendar '26, our fiscal 2027, will be our most prolific year ever for new product introductions and other announcements and in the bull's eye of our core positioning. The initiatives we're planning are meaningful to our customers quick to market and demand relatively few costs ahead of their launch. Here are just a few.

We plan to unlock the Snugg sofa, our newest platform through platform extensions that directly address early consumer requests. In short, the Snugg can do more literally and figuratively, and it will this coming year. We'll also optimize our channel experience, leaning into outsized early success of the Snugg in our digital and Costco channels. We plan to unlock Sactionals as the workhorse for Lovesac through a full redesign of core inserts that will enable domestic manufacturing, add features and benefits our customers will love. And give us the opportunity to refresh our portfolio of patent and IP protections around Sactionals, even better Sactionals manufactured using new materials that work seamlessly with all our previous versions. This is a really big deal, and it represents significant work by our talented in-house and some external partners.

This has been underway for a while now, but was accelerated given all the tariff noise this year. To be clear, we are well along this path already, working with existing and some new vendors and believe we can begin domestic manufacturing for our core SKUs this summer at a gross-margin-neutral basis and potentially even margin-favorable basis. This is possible because of a unique Lovesac competitive advantage, high volumes of limited SKUs. This unlocks automation, and it serves as the basis for our new product development approach in all rounds. Made in the U.S.A. Sactionals, better and hopefully cheaper is the goal just a few months away.

With an expanded Snugg platform designed to lower the entry point into our brand, we are excited to announce a new high-end sectional sofa platform that we expect to launch midyear coming up. This is distinct from Snugg or Sactionals. It will have a different aesthetic and even larger footprint and different use case than Sactionals or Snugg to target the higher-end consumer where we are seeing the healthiest demand right now. We also believe it can help anchor from above the value proposition for Sactionals, leading to increased consumer appreciation for our workhorse product that's priced right down the middle now.

Next, we plan to reduce friction for our customers by removing the single biggest reason for not purchasing Lovesac according to their feedback. Lack of tiered delivery and setup options. We just launched scheduled Room of Choice delivery in November, which has been very well received. Next, we plan to beta test for white glove delivery and assembly by Q1 with a formal launch as soon as possible thereafter, driven by measurable customer demand and providing new revenue opportunities for Lovesac. We have even more introductions to drive secular growth planned for this coming year that we aren't quite ready to share yet, leveraging both of our superpowers, Designed for Life products and our tailored customer acquisition engines. You'll hear more from us in the coming quarters.

As part of this strategic direction, we've decided to shift the launch of our next new room a few months into early calendar 2027. This gives us the opportunity to prioritize a set of exciting near-term initiatives that we believe will drive more efficient growth and profitability through this challenging macro environment. It also gives us the time needed to prepare for a major category-defining launch of this new room, one we intend to bring to market with a significant splash. Please note that as part of this clear focus on winning the living room and igniting the core, we are temporarily slowing the expansion of physical stores in the coming year. This will allow us to set the optimal omni-channel strategy for a multi-room brand with the Lovesac store of the future as an essential element of our customer acquisition engine superpower over the years to come.

Regarding our outlook, beginning with the macro, the slight improvement in category trend has continued with low to mid-single-digit declines of late as compared to mid-single-digit declines months ago. That said, the weakness has become more pronounced for us in the lower dollar volume transactions, say, below $6,000, which led to the slight shortfall in the third quarter. We've already adjusted our marketing and promotional strategies as a result. The all-important Black Friday and Cyber Monday holiday weeks have been very encouraging, achieving strong growth already versus last year. However, as mentioned before, the trends have more peaks and troughs in them than in prior years, and we also have tougher comparisons coming over the New Year's and January holidays, where we escalated our conversion efforts last year.

We are heartened by recent performance for sure, but still choose to maintain an abundance of caution. Keith will provide our updated guidance ranges in a few minutes. But in short, we estimate this year, fiscal 2026, to be a year of modest market share gains for Lovesac with absolute growth despite a down category and with encouraging green shoots showing now from all of our strategic adjustments being implemented in Q4 and on into the new year.

Shifting gears to leadership and governance. We are thrilled to welcome a new member to our top leadership team this quarter. Jacob Pat has joined us as Lovesac's new Chief Technology Officer. Jacob brings valuable experience that will support the acceleration of our digital transformation initiatives. In addition, Lovesac continues to broaden and deepen the relevant skills and experience at our Board of Director level.

Following the addition of a seasoned global technology leader in Alan Boehme this August, H&M, Coca-Cola and others on his CV, we are excited to have Wan Ling Martello join our Board of Directors quite recently. Wan Ling's exceptional track record of driving transformational growth where she serves on the Board of Alibaba and previously on the Board of Uber, along with her own deep experience as a top C-suite executive at some of the world's largest and most respected consumer and retail companies. She is an invaluable addition to our Board, and we are proud to have her as an adviser. Her proven expertise in data-driven resource allocation and digital transformation that drives consumer engagement aligns perfectly with our mission as a technology-driven furniture company.

Lovesac is more than the sum of its parts. Lovesac is a brand, a brand that we believe will be the most loved home brand in America in pretty short order and one day, the most loved brand in America full stop. That's our ambition. We are inventing and investing steadily even through these tough times for this category while balancing cash flow generation and profitability. Our tall ambitions begin with reaching our goal of 3 million Lovesac households by 2030, households that will have ever-more Designed for Life products across ever-more rooms in the house. We are totally focused and committed to this midterm goal that will produce meaningful growth over these next few years, regardless of what happens in the macro.

While our ambitions are grand, we are patient. We recognize the need to evolve our strategies adapting to the economic landscape and competitive realities of this time. Harvesting the brand we have built to win the living room and the categories we already have so much brand equity in is the right strategy for right now. Profitable growth and market share gains driven by focused execution sets the perfect stage to bet big on the launch of that new room in early calendar 2027, when the consumer and category are hopefully in a stronger fundamental position to boot.

With that, I'll hand it over to Mary.

Mary Fox
President & COO

Thank you, Shawn, and good morning, everyone. Building on Shawn's overview of our Designed for Life platforms, I'll now focus on our second superpower, our customer acquisition engines as well as our growth enablers that are fueling our momentum. As a reminder, what makes our customer acquisition engine so powerful, a superpower and effect is our ability to leverage different mixes of brand and performance marketing, digital configuration through lovesac.com, incredible showroom experiences and efficient partnerships to optimal effect by product platform. Done wisely, we can efficiently generate customer awareness, convert that awareness into customers and ultimately build long-term relationships and brand love.

So let's start with brand and performance marketing. Quarter 3 was only the beginning of an evolution in our marketing and media strategy. The first step was to modernize our go-to-market approach and media mix to drive more personalized messaging that better meets consumers where they are meaningfully consuming content. We were pleased with the initial impact and some highlights worth mentioning include culturally relevant campaigns with celebrities like Brittany Snow and Bethenny Frankel, seasonal campaigns like Sac to School, exciting campaigns like our NFL season kickoff featuring New York Giants Superstars, Jaxson Dart and Cam Skattebo. The tail was long with activations with CBS, NCIS and nostalgic collab with Twilight Movie Saga and more.

That said, as Shawn mentioned, in quarter 3, we saw more pressure in our smaller and mid-range setups following recent price increases taken to offset the tariff impact. These configuration types tend to track more closely with the middle-income consumer. And what we saw was consistent with broader category behaviors of less trading up and some trading down. This is good timing in that we were able to implement the second step of our marketing evolution in time to address this dynamic for the all-important fourth quarter. We needed to change approach, focusing more on attracting and converting the customers close to purchasing. This included further shifts out of traditional media formats such as linear TV and towards heavier paid influencer, programmatic digital channels and other engaging digital content to highlight the unique aspects of Lovesac and our value proposition.

We are also expanding into AI search and content creation, which can be a material upside for us. Of course, we reinforced this with compelling discount offers, particularly around smaller dollar transactions and opening price point options. The good news is that the combined Black Friday, Cyber Monday holiday period achieved strong growth to last year. Now there's still quite a bit of the quarter to go, including New Year in January, but it's an encouraging start. Second is our digital configurations and how we bring Lovesac to life online. This is an important topic, one with significant momentum as we entered the fourth quarter.

The website is our single biggest and most accessible store, and we have been aggressively updating and adapting our approach following the reorganization of the marketing and e-commerce teams in September and the rebuilding of our marketing playbook. In short, we've built a more cohesive and responsive digital ecosystem. We set up more powerful destinations across the site, including the homepage, seasonal guides, bundles that resonate and more. These destinations create more relevant entry points as customers began actively exploring options for their homes and provide clearer pathways for discovery of upgrade options and more products. This is supported by a strengthened media and advertising strategy.

We expanded our digital presence and broadened our tactic mix with new NBA placements through Fan Connect and Reddit product ads. We introduced Roku, Showcase and Pause formats, reinforced YouTube content and keyword alignment, expanded programmatic reach, activated AI-powered search optimization and delivered refreshed holiday CRM creative. As an example of effect and within the small and midrange configurations, we saw encouraging signs as the quarter progressed. What began as mid-quarter softness narrowed in the final weeks of quarter 3 and turned to growth as we entered the fourth quarter. Momentum strengthened further through Cyber 5, where we saw the strongest Cyber Monday in our history, well ahead of both last year and the year before that, and this is a testament to the impact.

Lastly, Snugg remained a standout performer online, delivering meaningful sequential growth and reinforcing the strong customer response to the platform online. Third is our showroom experience, the physical brand amplifiers of our Designed for Life products. In quarter 3, we launched our new customer demonstration architecture, The Brand Tour, a standardized, repeatable walk-through designed to guide customers through the value, versatility and performance of our various products, including Snugg, which has been fully deployed in time for the holiday selling season. Early indicators show that The Brand Tour is helping associates create more impactful demonstrations and deepen customer understanding while amplifying our Designed for Life story across all stores. As a result, customer satisfaction in store has steadily improved this year and remains significantly higher among customers who experience a demo, indicating that the tour is contributing positively to the overall experience.

And then finally, complementing our showrooms is our partnership model, and we enhanced our Costco partnership extensively in quarter 3. Our bundled offers now include the Snugg Sofa and Accent Chair, Sactionals reclining seat and 5 new fabric offerings. We deployed upgraded roadshow fixtures, enabling live demonstrations of StealthTech capabilities, which is an important differentiator that sets us apart from other seating at Costco. We improved the digital shopping experience at costco.com, leading to accelerating trends there. And last, we expanded Lovesac's reach into Hawaii and Alaska, which positions us for additional market share gains. When combined, these 4 elements of our customer acquisition engines create an unmatched customer experience that drives brand LOVE and enables long-term relationships, and we are reinforcing this further with our customer-facing services.

Since quarter 2, our resale program Loved by Lovesac has now expanded to a total of 27 states. This expansion enhances customer lifetime value and creates new revenue opportunities, all while continuing to support our mission of delivering products that are built to last and adaptable to our customers' lives. In parallel, we've also made significant progress towards bringing a formal trade-in program to market. We're on track to introduce an internal pilot for associates during quarter 1 next year and hope to roll out the trade-in program to customers starting in quarter 2.

Perhaps even more importantly, we are very happy to share that we have launched the first wave of enhanced delivery and assembly services in November. Customers can now schedule their delivery with placement into their Room of Choice for a reasonable fee. Furthermore, we are now also testing the second wave, which will be white glove services inclusive of assembly in their home. We're hopeful that these services make it easier for anyone and all customers to buy Lovesac products and love them for years to come. Key to sustaining our long-term profitable growth are our growth enablers with our supply chain playing a pivotal role. As I shared before, our supply chain is a competitive advantage, a true strength.

Today, I'd like to focus on our path to manufacture the bulk of our products in the United States in the medium term. First, we are on track to begin domestic production of Sactional insert pieces next summer. Based on progress to date, we believe that we can do this with gross margins that are neutral, potentially favorable to current levels. How are you delivering this to you ask? Over the past year, we have completely redesigned the Sactional chassis using a mix of new materials to make it even more durable and highly automatable. There simply aren't direct competitors with limited SKU assortments and strategies that enable this approach, which is what creates this opportunity for Lovesac.

The redesign enabled a series of enhancements that improve comfort, functionality and ease of assembly, all of which are of real value to our customers. These redesigns also afford us the opportunity to generate new defensible patents and IP to help ward off competition. And of course, the new Sactionals will be reverse compatible with existing products and future compatible with inventions we're currently cooking. We have 3 excellent manufacturing partners that hope to cover different geographies of the United States in order to provide efficiency and distribution. The better we get at making products closer to our customers and therefore, shipping them over shorter distances should reduce required weeks of stock on hand and transportation costs.

We are very grateful to our teams that have worked so hard on this initiative. Domestic, automated, efficient manufacturing has long been a goal at Lovesac and seeing it close to reality is so exciting. Doing it in an economically advantageous way is even better. And with that, I will hand over to Keith to share more on our financial performance and outlook. Keith?

Keith Siegner
Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer

Thanks, Mary. Let's jump right into a quick review of third quarter, followed by our outlook for the rest of fiscal 2026. As we begin with performance metrics, please note that all references to the third quarter refer to fiscal 2026, unless otherwise noted. Net sales increased $0.3 million or 0.2% to $150.2 million in the third quarter compared to the prior year period. Showroom net sales increased $11.7 million or 12.8% to $102.7 million in the third quarter compared to the prior year period, driven by the net addition of 17 new showrooms, partially offset by a decrease of 1.2% in omni-channel comparable net sales.

Internet net sales decreased $7.6 million or 16.9% to $37.3 million in the third quarter compared to the prior year period. Other net sales, which include pop-up shop sales, shop-in-shop sales, open-box inventory transactions and the Loved by Lovesac program, decreased $3.8 million or 27.3% to $10.2 million in the third quarter compared to the prior year period. The decrease was primarily attributable to the company's decision not to engage in any barter transactions during the current period and the closure of the company's Best Buy shop-in-shop locations as a result of the discontinuation of our partnership with Best Buy.

By product category in the third quarter, our Sactional net sales decreased 1.0%, Sacs net sales decreased by 9.0% and our other net sales, which includes our new Snugg platform, decorative pillows, blankets and accessories, increased 126.3% over the prior year. Gross margin decreased 240 basis points to 56.1% of net sales in the third quarter of fiscal 2026 versus 58.5% in the prior year period, primarily driven by increases of 320 basis points in inbound transportation and tariff costs, 20 basis points in outbound transportation and warehousing costs, partially offset by an increase of 100 basis points in product margin, driven by price increases, cost reduction initiatives and concessions from our vendors in response to changes in the tariff environment.

SG&A expense as a percent of net sales was 49.9% in the third quarter of fiscal '26 versus 47.9% in the prior year period. The increased percentage is primarily related to higher payroll costs, license and registration fees, rent and other overhead costs. The increase in selling, general and administrative expense dollars was primarily related to increases of $4.1 million in payroll, including an out-of-period $1.6 million expense pertaining to employee benefits in prior periods, $1.0 million in licenses and registration, $0.7 million in rent and $0.8 million in other overhead costs. The increases were partially offset by decreases of $3.0 million in legal and professional fees and $0.4 million in equity-based compensation.

Rent increased by $0.7 million related to a $0.8 million increase in rent expense from our net addition of 17 showrooms, partially offset by a $0.1 million reduction in percentage rent. We estimate nonrecurring incremental fees associated with the restatement of prior period financials were approximately $1.2 million in the third quarter. Advertising and marketing expenses increased $1.1 million or 5.7% to $21.1 million for the third quarter compared to the prior year period. Advertising and marketing expenses were 14.0% of net sales in the third quarter as compared to 13.3% of net sales in the prior year period. Operating loss for the quarter was $15.8 million compared to $7.7 million in the third quarter of last year, driven by the factors we just discussed.

Before we turn our attention to net loss, net loss per common share and adjusted EBITDA, please refer to the terminology and reconciliation between each of our adjusted metrics and their most directly comparable GAAP measurement in our earnings release issued earlier this morning. Net loss for the quarter was $10.6 million or negative $0.72 per common share compared to a net loss of $4.9 million or $0.32 per common share in the prior year period. During the third quarter, we recorded an income tax benefit of $5.0 million as compared to $2.1 million in the prior year period. Adjusted EBITDA loss for the quarter was $6.0 million as compared to adjusted EBITDA of $2.7 million in the prior year period.

Turning to our balance sheet. We ended the third quarter with a healthy balance sheet that provides substantial flexibility for Lovesac to invest in growth to enhance long-term value creation for shareholders. We reported $23.7 million in cash and cash equivalents while retaining $36 million in committed availability and no borrowings on our recently amended credit facility. First, we feel very good about both the quality and quantity of our inventory and our ability to maintain industry-leading in-stock positions and delivery times and believe we can end fiscal '26 with meaningfully lower dollars of inventory than that at the end of fiscal '25.

Second, nothing has changed in our strategy to allocate excess capital opportunistically with a focus on long-term value creation and enhancing returns on capital. Given significant uncertainty and macro backdrop owing to tariffs and consumer spending over the near term, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the third quarter. Year-to-date, we've repurchased 6.0 million of our common stock outstanding, and we have approximately $14.1 million remaining under our existing share repurchase authorization. Please refer to our earnings press release for other details on our third quarter financial performance.

So now our outlook. As Shawn mentioned, we experienced very modest improvement in category trends in the fiscal third quarter, and our current outlook for the fourth quarter looks more like a negative low to mid-single-digit category decline. While we're very encouraged by the demand growth we achieved through the important holiday period, we're cognizant of our more difficult compares over New Year's in January and also the lack of any sustained trend in consumer spending week-to-week in recent months. What remains clear is the consumer is price-sensitive and deal-focused, and we've raised our discount plans to increase competitiveness, particularly for the below $6,000 transaction.

Combined with our caution on sales for the remainder of the quarter, this places some incremental pressure on gross margin versus what we originally anticipated for the fourth quarter. Specifically for the full year, we estimate net sales of $685 million to $705 million. We expect adjusted EBITDA between $37 million and $43 million. This includes gross margins of 56% to 57%, advertising and marketing of approximately 12.5% as a percent of net sales and SG&A of approximately 40% to 41% as a percent of net sales. We estimate net income to be between $2 million and $8 million. We estimate diluted income per common share in the range of $0.15 to $0.49 and approximately 16.2 million estimated diluted weighted average shares outstanding.

For the fourth quarter, we estimate net sales of $236 million to $256 million, representing low single-digit revenue growth at the midpoint and fully representative of all our near-term plans for tariff mitigation. We expect adjusted EBITDA between $51 million and $56 million. This includes gross margins of 57.5% to 58.5% advertising and marketing of 10% as a percent of net sales and SG&A of 27.5% to 28.5% as a percent of net sales. We estimate net income to be $30 million to $36 million. We estimate diluted income per common share to be $1.88 to $2.22 with 16.2 million diluted weighted average shares outstanding.

We are providing full year fiscal '27 guidance today. However, to expand on a comment Shawn made earlier, as part of our strategy to win the living room by igniting the core over the next several quarters, we plan to slow net showroom expansion to approximately 10 net openings in fiscal '27. In summary, we're balancing prudence and efficiency with our belief that it's essential to stay focused on the big picture. That's the massive long-term opportunity for tremendous value creation for all Lovesac stakeholders. We're building the Lovesac brand and investing in new product innovation that spans style, function and new categories that supports a powerful multiyear secular growth outlook with macro upside exposure as icing on the cake.

With that, over to you, operator.