Lumen Technologies, Inc. (LUMN) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 30, 2025 5:00 PM EDT

Company Participants

James Breen - Senior Vice President of Investor Relation
Kathleen Johnson - President, CEO & Director
Christopher Stansbury - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Michael Rollins - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Sebastiano Petti - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Frank Louthan - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Gregory Williams - TD Cowen, Research Division
Eric Luebchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Nicholas Del Deo - MoffettNathanson LLC
Michael Funk - BofA Securities, Research Division
Jonathan Atkin - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to Lumen Technologies Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, Thursday, October 30, 2025.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Jim Breen, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

James Breen
Senior Vice President of Investor Relation

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining Lumen Technologies on today's call. On the call today are Kate Johnson, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Stansbury, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, this conference call may include forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties. All forward-looking statements should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements and the risk factors in our SEC filings. We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measures, which can be found in our earnings press release. In addition, certain metrics discussed today exclude costs for special items as detailed in our earnings materials, which can be found on the Investor Relations section of the Lumen website.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Kate.

Kathleen Johnson
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Jim, and thanks, everybody, for joining the call. We had a very productive third quarter at Lumen. First, we reported strong financial results with revenue, EBITDA and free cash flow all coming in ahead of Street consensus. And we're executing well on the essential operational components of our business transformation, including things like a successful phase 1 implementation of our new ERP system, delivering more than $250 million in run rate cost takeout through the end of Q3, on track for $350 million this year, continuing our balance sheet cleanup with an additional $2.4 billion debt refinancing and subsequent term loan repricing, and by making really good progress on our consumer fiber-to-the-home sale to AT&T, now targeted to close in early 2026.

But the real headline for this earnings call is the progress we're making to pivot this company back to growth -- revenue growth. We signed an additional $1-plus billion in private connectivity fabric deals since our last update, bringing the total PCF deal value to over $10 billion. We continue to scale the adoption of NaaS, reaching more than 1,500 enterprise customers since the launch of this platform. We launched our latest NaaS innovation, Internet on-demand or IOD off-net, giving us nearly 100x greater market reach to accelerate digital service sales and revenue growth. We're rapidly building a connected ecosystem with dozens of early adopter tech partners who see how Lumen's digital platform can accelerate their time to value with joint customers.

And while we still carry the weight of declining legacy telecom revenue, our growing revenue base now comprises 50% of North American enterprise revenue, up from 35.5% just 3 years ago. We're proud of the significant progress our team has made this quarter, and we believe our investment thesis and strategy are showing tangible results, and those results are being recognized in both the credit and equity markets. The advent of AI has created an urgent need for structural change in network architecture, and Lumen is uniquely positioned to take advantage of the moment.

So I want to share some quick thoughts on how we see the market to provide context for the rest of my remarks. AI workloads are pushing data center footprint to grow 10x by 2030, and public cloud spend is expected to eclipse $1 trillion in that very same period. Meanwhile, CIOs are on the hook to deliver insight at the speed of thought while efficiently managing explosive data growth across complex hybrid and multi-cloud environments.

But traditional network architectures, they were built for simpler times, and they just won't cut it anymore. They're not big enough or fast enough or intelligent enough or secure enough. Simply put, traditional networks led precious GPU investments sit idle, and Lumen is changing all of that, as Dave Ward, our Chief Technology and Product Officer, explained in his recent white paper. He advocates for a fundamental reset in networking to support the new era of Cloud 2.0 and identifies 5 essential networking capabilities required to thrive: extreme bandwidth and low latency, data center interconnect, expansion into AI corridors, distributed cloud on-ramps and programmable API first networks. These requirements are the underpinning of Lumen's 3-part strategy, including the physical layer, the digital layer and the connected ecosystem.

And today, I'll translate that into Lumen's evolving business model with some exciting updates starting with building the backbone for the AI economy. Now as I mentioned upfront, we closed another $1 billion-plus in PCF deals, bringing our total to over $10 billion with a healthy pipeline of deals remaining. Based on our current build schedule, the $10 billion of business in hand plus the existing O&M run rate business for PCF, we expect will yield a recurring revenue stream ranging between $400 million and $500 million by the time we exit 2028.

I'll add 2 important footnotes regarding this business. First, none of the remaining deals in the pipeline have been contemplated in this revenue guidance. They are purely upside. Second, we remain deeply disciplined in our approach by only inking deals that are value accretive to Lumen shareholders even if this means stepping away from an opportunity. And the teams are doing a great job building that backbone. As of the end of September, we had completed more than 3,200 miles of over pulls on 27 different routes, approximately 130% of our in-year '25 target with a full quarter left to go for the year. But building the backbone for the AI economy, it's not just about over pulls for our hyperscaler and neocloud friends. It also requires massive upgrades to our physical network to support Cloud 2.0 needs of enterprise customers.

And for this, we're investing in 3 major fabric infrastructure projects, including rapid routes, data center expansion and metro expansion. Market by market, we're upgrading capacity, increasing data center interconnects and improving service delivery experience and time frames to help our customers address the urgent needs of AI and multi-cloud architecture. These investments are how Lumen is creating a ubiquitous, high-capacity networking fabric that enables our customers to connect everywhere that matters quickly, securely and effortlessly.

Okay. Moving on to our digital platform update. We've created Lumen connectivity fabric and NaaS to address the need for programmable API first networks in the world of Cloud 2.0, and I think our growth metrics confirm the market need for what we're offering. The number of active customers in the third quarter grew by 32% since last quarter, and the number of NaaS fabric ports deployed grew by 30% and the number of services sold by 36% in that same period. Across all 3 KPIs, we're showing strong growth. Now I share these metrics with you each quarter because they're central to our new business model, which is different than traditional telecom.

I'll share more about that now, so we can all ground ourselves in a common understanding of how Lumen will pivot to revenue growth. At the center of our new PxQ business model is the fabric port. One digital port that delivers many services. And when we say Q, we mean total active ports or the number of net new ports in service. When we say P, we mean average selling price. Average selling price of each service purchase through Lumen connect and deployed on the port. And in early 2026, we're going to extend this model with the launch of Project Berkeley, a pre-provisioned cross-carrier fabric port that lights up first and third-party services on and off-net, AI ready from day 1.

Simply put, Berkeley enables intelligent and universal access no matter who owns the pipes. Customers will be able to install the port and light up standard kits of services, including IoD or Internet on Demand, Lumen Defender, voice, VPN on Demand, and a range of cloud on-ramps. Soon through our connected ecosystem work, they'll also be able to light up third-party services. The commercial motions to drive digital growth are simple and repeatable by both our direct sales force and our partner channels.

First, they land customers on new port with a mix of starter services and then they expand by attaching more services on installed ports creating a PxQ flywheel of sorts. And at an Investor Day next quarter, we'll share more about what we're learning as this new digital marketplace takes shape. Here's what we know. Growth will come through selling more ports and upselling more first- and third-party services. And that's why I'm so excited to share the next 2 announcements with you.

On October 20, we launched IoD off-net, expanding our addressable market by close to 100x and that's just in the United States. Since Lumen NaaS became generally available in January of 2024, the #1 piece of customer feedback has always been, hey, bring Lumen NaaS off to market, and here we are. It's early days, but the feedback so far has been very positive with great customers like Xcel Energy, noting how Lumen's off-net NaaS will help them achieve important business outcomes such as more resilient operations and more intelligent services.

Now the second announcement is about the Lumen Connected ecosystem, a major driver of commercial expansion for both ports and services. Last week, we announced a strategic partnership with Palantir where we not only agreed to buy services from each other, but we committed to bring those capabilities to joint customers. I want to call your attention to an article from The Street entitled "Palantir just signed a deal that could shift the AI power balance". The piece does a really nice job explaining how Lumen's network has become critical infrastructure in the AI race. The purpose of the connected ecosystem is to help more technology companies like Palantir gain competitive advantage by leveraging our platform and allowing Lumen to gain commercial reach.

We're excited to report that we're working with dozens of other companies that not only understand the power of our new business model, but they also understand that our AI-ready network enhances the delivery of their solutions. Just some of the marquee tech companies we're working with include, of course, Microsoft, Google and AWS, the big hyperscalers, but also data center companies like Digital Realty and QTS, AI platform companies like Palantir and Meter, data cloud services companies like Databricks and Snowflake, security companies like Palo Alto, Zscaler, F5 and Netskope, and backup and recovery and data protection services companies like Rubrik, Commvault and Cohesity and so many more.

Together, Lumen Connectivity Fabric and Lumen Connected Ecosystem offer a meaningful source of revenue growth. Our early read on growth from all of our digital capabilities includes NaaS, Edge Solutions, Security and the Connected Ecosystem is somewhere between $500 million and $600 million of incremental revenue run rate exiting 2028. And while it's hard to accurately forecast revenue, when you're creating a new market, we do feel good about these numbers, and we'll continue to be super transparent about all of our assumptions and learnings as we go.

To bring our revenue story home, PCF should yield between $400 million and $500 million of incremental revenue exiting '28. Lumen Digital should yield between $500 million and $600 million of incremental revenue in the same period. That's $900 million to $1.1 billion of incremental revenue exiting 2028, and that's the path for Lumen's business segment to achieve revenue growth. We're changing the game in networking by building the fastest open platform mesh network connected to everywhere that matters while delivering a digital on-demand experience so enterprises can quickly, securely and effortlessly move their data. It's what our customers need and it's what our investors deserve.

Chris, over to you.

Christopher Stansbury
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Kate. Lumen delivered another quarter of solid execution. We reported strong third quarter financials, implemented phase 1 of our new ERP system and continue to improve the balance sheet. Financially, revenue, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow results were better than expected. Our total business grow revenue was up 7.7% year-over-year and our total business revenue was only down 3.2% year-over-year, well ahead of the competition. The launch of phase 1 of the ERP system quote-to-cash is a significant milestone for Lumen as we continue to transform the company by simplifying systems to support our future growth. When phase 2 is completed next year, we will be on a unified ledger and will continue to sunset old systems and drive additional efficiencies across the organization.

We continue to strengthen our balance sheet with multiple capital markets transactions during the quarter. In August, we successfully priced $2 billion of 7% first lien notes due 2034 at Level 3, which enabled us to extend maturities by approximately 4 years and delivered $48 million in annual interest expense savings. We followed in September with pricing a $425 million add-on to the 7% notes to redeem all the remaining 2030 Level 3 first lien maturities and repriced our $2.4 billion term loan, reducing the rate by 100 basis points.

Lastly, in September, we used cash to redeem both the $238 million of 7.25% quest notes and $350 million of 10% Level 3 second lien notes. The third quarter debt refinancing term loan repricing and debt reduction actions further reduces annual interest expense by approximately $135 million. Year-to-date, we reduced annual interest expense by approximately $235 million through proactive balance sheet management.

Looking forward on a pro forma basis and considering the early 2026 expected closing of the announced $5.75 billion sale of our fiber-to-the-home business the proceeds will allow for the paydown of approximately $4.8 billion in Lumen super priority debt. This action is expected to further increase Lumen's annual interest expense savings up to approximately $535 million. We will continue to work toward improving our debt profile ahead of the anticipated close of the AT&T transaction in early '26 as we continue to seek opportunities to further delever, extend maturities, simplify the capital structure and reduce our cost of capital.

Upon closing the AT&T transaction, we expect to have approximately $13 billion in debt, reducing our overall leverage before 4x adjusted EBITDA. And with that, I could not be more proud of the team's hard work to deliver such impressive results as well as the opportunities that a new financial profile unlocks for Lumen's future. I'm really pleased to say debt is no longer a headwind for Lumen. The balance sheet is quickly becoming a point of strength for us.

So let's move to the discussion of financial results for the third quarter. Total reported revenue declined 4.2% to $3.087 billion. Business segment revenue declined 3.2% to $2.456 billion. Mass Market segment revenue declined 7.7% to $631 million. Adjusted EBITDA was $787 million with a 25.5% margin and free cash flow was $1.7 billion. Within North America enterprise channels, excluding wholesale, international and other, revenue declined by approximately 1%. North American enterprise grow revenue increased 10.5% year-over-year, driven by continued strength in dark fiber and IP. We saw expected and typical declines in Nurture and Harvest. Overall, including wholesale, North America business revenue declined 2.8%.

As previously communicated, Grow will become a larger percent of our North America enterprise revenue base over time. We're pleased to share that Grow now represents half, I'll say that again, half of our North America enterprise revenue. This was driven by our core network Grow products with non-PCF driving the largest portion of the increase. The emerging growth of digital has yet to materially impact our revenue performance.

As Kate mentioned, when we first reported this metric, in early 2022, Grow revenue represented approximately 35% of our North American enterprise portfolio. So to those who are stuck to their thesis that our legacy portfolio will prevent our return to growth, or that our growth is over relying on PCF, the facts show that thesis is increasingly incorrect and frankly, irrelevant over time.

Wholesale revenue declined approximately 7.6% year-over-year, in line with our expectations. International and other revenue declined 13% or $12 million, driven primarily by managed services, VPN and voice declines.

Now moving on to mass markets. Our fiber broadband revenue increased 18.4% year-over-year and represents over 49% of mass markets broadband revenue. During the quarter, Lumen added approximately 122,000 fiber-enabled homes, bringing our total to approximately $4.5 million as of September 30. We also added 39,000 Quantum Fiber customers, bringing fiber subs to approximately 1.2 million. Fiber ARPU was $64. At the end of the third quarter, our penetration of legacy copper broadband was approximately 7% and our Quantum Fiber penetration stood at approximately 26%.

Now turning to adjusted EBITDA. For the third quarter of 2025, adjusted EBITDA, excluding special items, was $787 million compared to approximately $900 million in the year ago quarter. For the third quarter of 2025, our margin was 25.5%. Adjusted EBITDA margins were disproportionately impacted by anticipated declines in public sector Harvest revenue in the third quarter. Special items impacting adjusted EBITDA totaled $216 million. This includes severance, transaction and separation costs and our modernization and simplification initiatives.

Lastly, capital expenditures were approximately $1 billion. Free cash flow, excluding special items, was over $1.7 billion. As a reminder, we expect free cash flow to be lumpy quarter-to-quarter as we move through the large PCF builds.

I'll now talk about our outlook for the remainder of '25. As we saw in the third quarter, we expect fourth quarter revenue to be negatively impacted by additional declines in public sector Harvest revenue as that revenue returns to more normalized levels, similar to the third quarter of 2024. On a year-over-year basis, I would remind everyone that we had a positive onetime revenue item in the Grow bucket in the fourth quarter of 2024.

With respect to 2025 adjusted EBITDA, we reiterate that we expect to come in near the high end of our $3.2 billion to $3.4 billion guidance range despite the previously announced $46 million RDOF giveback in the second quarter. We expect increased costs associated with our utilization of cloud services to continue in the fourth quarter as well as a negative impact on EBITDA from the above-mentioned public sector Harvest normalization.

As a reminder, our adjusted EBITDA guidance assumes organic revenue declines similar to 2024 and excludes roughly $300 million in transformation costs to support our multiyear commitment to reduce expenses by $1 billion. We remain confident that we will achieve adjusted EBITDA stability over the next few quarters and see an inflection to growth in 2026 driven mainly by continued M&A savings as well as improving revenue declines.

We maintain our 2025 guidance for CapEx spending at $4.1 billion to $4.3 billion. As we previously communicated, we expect to be at the low end of that range, mainly because of build timing and increased efficiency from our team, offset by some strategic investments for growth. As we said, we expect our overall capital intensity to fall over time. Our 2025 cash interest guidance remains at $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion. We continue to expect to be at the low end of the range because of the improvements we've made to our debt profile.

Finally, we're reiterating our full year free cash flow guidance of $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion, mainly because of lower-than-anticipated CapEx spending, better adjusted EBITDA performance, lower interest expense and the expected $400 million tax refund. I would note, our free cash flow outlook reflects our expectation of receiving the $400 million refund from recent legislation in 2025. While the IRS has accepted our request for the refund, the receipt of this cash could be delayed by a prolonged shutdown of the U.S. government.

Now as I wrap up, I want to emphasize that as we disrupt the market for legacy enterprise telecom offerings with next-generation Cloud 2.0 connectivity digital solutions, we'll change the way we measure and provide insights into our business. The future is about digital scalability and growth, and this requires a different way of thinking, a different way of modeling. As we transform Lumen, we simply won't fit the models of yesterday's telecom. For those of you open to changing your models to track our journey, we appreciate your thoughtfulness and we'll provide as much guidance as we claim, including a deeper dive look at our upcoming Investor Day in February.

Kate talked about $500 million to $600 million in digital revenue exiting 2028. Digital includes NaaS, cloud on-ramp security as well as revenue from ecosystem partnerships. We see multiple paths to achieving those digital revenue goals over the next 3 years. We're still testing assumptions. But what we do know is we're seeing great adoption for NaaS as well as immediate interest from industry-leading tech companies as we build our ecosystem partnerships. More than half our North American enterprise revenue is coming from growing products today. And while we're still gauging the timing of the revenue on our new digital products and enterprise buying habits, the early trends we're seeing gives us increased confidence in our return to business revenue growth in 2028.

As we learn more, we'll be transparent as we introduce concepts to investors that will be highly correlated to our strategy and distinctly differentiated in the market relative to the backdrop of traditional telecom, but we believe will make sense as our business evolves over time. While there are a lot of moving parts over the next 12 to 18 months, we believe our transformation and innovation will lead to new revenue streams to satisfy the needs of customers in today's Cloud 2.0 environment. Our cost structure optimization and increasing digital revenue helped improve margins and free cash flow, reduce our capital intensity, lower our leverage and borrowing costs and ultimately provide the financial flexibility to invest in Lumen's future growth.

We're pleased with our performance this quarter as we make great strides across all 3 layers of the business: physical, digital and ecosystem. We're also pleased with the reaction from the credit and equity markets as our trading multiple is beginning to reflect the impact of our significant balance sheet improvements or improving revenue mix away from legacy to growing products and the early proof points for our digital growth engine. We're excited by what the future holds, especially given the financial impact of our digital future and that they're not materially reflected in our results today. We look forward to providing more updates along our journey.

And I'll now hand it back to the operator for Q&A.