Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Danielle Collins - Managing Director of Investor Relations
Robert Jordan - President, CEO & Vice Chairman of the Board
Andrew Watterson - Chief Operating Officer
Tom Doxey - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Catherine O'Brien - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Conor Cunningham - Melius Research LLC
Jamie Baker - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Scott Group - Wolfe Research, LLC
Michael Linenberg - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
John Godyn - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Duane Pfennigwerth - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Thomas Fitzgerald - TD Cowen, Research Division
Atul Maheswari - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Savanthi Syth - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Andrew Didora - BofA Securities, Research Division
Ravi Shanker - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Brandon Oglenski - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
David Vernon - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Daniel McKenzie - Seaport Research Partners
Christian Wetherbee - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, everyone, and welcome to the Southwest Airlines Fourth Quarter 2025 Conference Call. My name is Jamie, and I will be monitoring today's conference call, which is being recorded. A replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investors section.

[Operator Instructions]

Now Danielle Collins, Managing Director of Investor Relations, will begin the discussion. Please go ahead, Danielle.

Danielle Collins
Managing Director of Investor Relations

Thank you. Hello, everyone, and welcome to Southwest Airlines Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. In just a moment, we'll share our prepared remarks, after which we will move to Q&A. Joining me today are Bob Jordan, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Andrew Watterson, our Chief Operating Officer; and Tom Doxey, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, a reminder that today's session will make forward-looking statements, which are based on our current expectations of future performance, and our actual results could differ materially from expectations. Also, we will reference our non-GAAP results, which exclude special items that are called out and reconciled to GAAP results in our earnings press release.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Bob.

Robert Jordan
President, CEO & Vice Chairman of the Board

Thank you, Danielle, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our earnings call today. We've been looking forward to 2026 when all the incredible work undertaken by the Southwest team will show dramatically improved results.

First, however, a few comments on this past year and our fourth quarter 2025 results. The fourth quarter capped a year of meaningful transformation and accelerated execution at Southwest. We finished the year and the quarter strong for both revenue and cost, achieving full year EBIT of $574 million, which was above our prior guide of $500 million. Operating revenues of $7.4 billion for fourth quarter and $28 billion for the full year were quarterly and annual records.

Our fourth quarter and full year results underscore that our initiatives are generating the desired results and provide great momentum as we head into 2026. We also ran a terrific operation, coming in #1 in on-time performance, completion factor and the lowest extreme delays in December and our strong operational performance throughout the year led to Southwest earning the top spot as The Wall Street Journal's Best U.S. Airline of 2025. I'm proud of the results, but I'm especially proud of our people who are the ones getting this done every single day, day in and day out.

Before moving to 2026 and the exciting year ahead, I want to underscore some of the key initiatives that we successfully implemented in 2025, and here are the larger ones. We changed our product offering, including the implementation of bag fees, addition of a basic economy fare product and flight credit expiration, optimized our Rapid Rewards program, including variable earn and burn rates.

Amended our co-brand credit card agreement with Chase, including new benefits and improved economics, launched free WiFi for loyalty program members in partnership with T-Mobile, expanded our online presence through new partnerships with Expedia and Priceline, outperformed our $370 million cost reduction target for 2025, including the first layoff of noncontract and management employees, added 6 new airline partners, launched Getaways by Southwest, added redeye flying, reduced turn time to increase aircraft utilization, deployed new technology to boost operational reliability, a key enabler of our top spot in the Wall Street Journal ranking of airlines, discontinued the fuel hedging program, completed $2.6 billion in share buybacks in 2025, representing about 14% of shares outstanding while maintaining our investment-grade rating.

And on Tuesday, we implemented assigned and extra legroom seating, which required retrofitting over 800 aircraft. It is just a stunning list of initiatives undertaken by the Southwest team, all implemented on time and all delivered with excellence. In my 38-year career in this industry, I cannot think of another airline that embarked on so many fundamental changes to their business model and in such a short time, let alone, executed so well.

The list of initiatives falls into 2 categories: one focused on offering a significantly better experience for our customers and the other focused on revenue growth and operational efficiency. Collectively, the large investments we have made result in a fundamental transformation and evolution of our business model while building on our core historic strengths. The largest domestic network, a strong balance sheet, unmatched customer loyalty to our brand, outstanding service and hospitality, low cost and operational efficiency, our unique culture and especially our unrivaled people. This transformation is expected to result in a significant step-up in how we grow earnings as compared to the past few years.

And for 2026, we are forecasting earnings that are dramatically higher than 2025. For the full year, we are not yet guiding an EPS range. While being well above Wall Street consensus, we are providing EPS guidance that represents the lower end of our internal forecast. With that qualifier, we are guiding full year 2026 adjusted EPS of at least $4, which is materially higher than 2025 adjusted EPS of $0.93.

Let me share our reasoning why we are not yet providing an upper range for 2026 earnings. Assigned and extra legroom seating became operational just 2 days ago, and we see earnings upside based on how booking behavior related to those initiatives unfolds, specifically upsell revenue from close-in bookings, which are more closely affiliated with business and price flexible customers. And second, we expect growth in both the business and leisure customer base driven by our new, more attractive product offering. We expect to have better visibility to the upside potential from these initiatives in the next month or two, and we'll provide range-bound EPS guidance when the current quarter results are reported, if not before.

Also going forward, we plan to follow the industry norm of providing guidance to investors using broad company forecasts and results. This means we will step back from providing details and specific numbers around activities such as bag fees, assigned seating, the co-brand program and so on.

I believe that Southwest 2026 earnings growth will stand out when compared to other major airlines. This is largely due to the nature of the many initiatives we have implemented, initiatives that were previously implemented by other airlines over the last decade or more, whereas the Southwest is implementing these initiatives now. And the work will not stop here. We see meaningful opportunities ahead to grow earnings from areas such as route network optimization under a backdrop of improved operating margins in the business, increasing our corporate customer base driven by product changes that better appeal to the business traveler. And this is a long-term journey, and we believe that executed well, we will see the rewards and additional cost takeout and efficiency efforts.

We have an exciting year ahead as we continue to deliver for our customers and for our shareholders. I am incredibly proud of our people. They are the ones getting it done every single day, running a strong operation, serving our customers and transforming our company for the future.

And with that, I will turn it over to Andrew.

Andrew Watterson
Chief Operating Officer

Thank you, Bob. From a network perspective, Q4 capacity grew 5.8% year-over-year despite the fleet count being roughly flat year-over-year. Efficiency initiatives like reduced turn times and the introduction of redeye flying allowed us to maximize asset utilization while maintaining industry-leading reliability.

For the full year, operating revenue increased 1.7% year-over-year, supported by initiatives kicking in and strong demand that drove both traffic and realized fares. My comment on realized fares reflects the effect of buy-ups from the changes we implemented. Fourth quarter RASM, which was impacted by the FAA mandated schedule cuts, was down slightly at negative 0.2% year-over-year.

Building on the strong foundation, we're entering Q1 with momentum and confidence. We expect RASM to increase by at least 9.5% year-over-year, with contributions from yield, load factor, initiatives and loyalty programs. Q1 capacity is expected to grow between 1% and 2% year-over-year, even as we operate with approximately 7 fewer aircraft, a reflection of continued efficiency gains.

Importantly, Tuesday marked the launch of 2 major product enhancements, assigned seating and our extra legroom offering. All aircraft conversions, technology development and employee training were completed on schedule. Customer response has been overwhelmingly positive. And these products are expected to be meaningful contributors to further revenue growth and customer satisfaction in 2026.

I want to take a moment and reflect on the changes implemented 2 days ago. Overnight, we made the switch to assigned seating, implemented a differentiated service in our new extra legroom section and changed our boarding process. On Tuesday, we operated more than 3,200 flights as a different airline while continuing to deliver our usual high-quality operation, a testament to our incredible team. These initiatives aren't just enhancements, they represent a fundamental transformation in how Southwest delivers value to customers and shareholders. We're evolving our product to meet the needs of today's travelers while staying true to the Southwest brand.

In summary, Southwest is executing with discipline and delivering results that position us for sustained success. Our operational reliability, product changes and strong demand trends give us confidence as we move into 2026.

I'll now turn it over to Tom.

Tom Doxey
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Andrew. We delivered a solid quarter with an EBIT of $386 million. We continued our strong cost performance with CASM-X up 0.8% year-over-year despite operating less capacity than initially planned. Our fourth quarter performance reflects the strength of the transformation underway at Southwest and reflects well on our evolving culture, one that is relentlessly pursuing new revenue streams and operational efficiencies in areas that in the past, we had not focused on. At the same time, we continue to invest heavily in our customers, our people and our technology to position Southwest for long-term success.

Looking ahead, our initiatives, which represent a deep fundamental transformation of our business, are set to drive significant earnings growth in 2026. The impact from the initiatives launched in 2025 is well understood by us at this stage of the rollout, and we have confidence in our ability to deliver meaningful margin expansion and strong earnings growth this year.

As Bob stated, for full year 2026, we are providing an adjusted EPS guide of at least $4, which represents the lower end of our forecast. For the first quarter of 2026, we are guiding an adjusted EPS of at least $0.45 per share, which also represents the lower end of our forecast and compares to a loss of $0.13 in the first quarter of 2025. We expect continued strong cost discipline with CASM-X projected to increase approximately 3.5% year-over-year, which includes approximately 1.1 points of impact from the removal of 6 seats from our 737-700 fleet to enable extra legroom seating. We plan to keep management headcount expense flat to 2025 levels in 2026, and we'll also be focused on operational efficiency within our frontline teams.

Turning to fleet. Boeing continues to execute on its delivery commitments. We expect 66 Boeing 737-8 deliveries in 2026 and anticipate retiring 60 aircraft during the year. Full year net capital spending is expected to be in the range of $3 billion to $3.5 billion. In November, we issued $1.5 billion unsecured bonds at industry-leading terms. We ended the quarter with $3.2 billion in cash and a gross leverage ratio of 2.4x, both within our targets.

During 2025, we repurchased $2.6 billion of shares and distributed $399 million in dividends. At the same time, we plan to make the necessary investments in our business while staying within the guardrails that support our investment-grade rating.

In closing, 2026 is positioned to be a year of significant margin expansion and earnings growth for Southwest, and we remain confident in our ability to deliver and create long-term value for our shareholders.

And with that, I'll pass it back to Danielle to start our Q&A.

Danielle Collins
Managing Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Tom. This concludes our prepared remarks. We will now open the line for analyst questions.

[Operator Instructions]

