Question-and-Answer Session

Unknown Executive

Very good. We're available to answer a few questions, kindly introduce yourself when you ask your question.

Antoine Belge
BNP Paribas, Research Division

Antoine Belge from BNP Paribas. Three questions, if I may. Firstly, would it be possible to return to the performance of China in Q4 and also to know a little about what are your perhaps not forecast, but how you view the developments of the Chinese market that has turned down slightly since the summer.

Second question, Fashion & Leather Goods business. Could we have some metrics on Louis Vuitton. Dior has gone above the average of the division's end point. One of the great surprises today is the margin increases with very good cost control.

Mr. Arnault, you mentioned that with exchange rate impacts that the improvement is going to continue. The impact was quite high on the operating income, but thanks to currency hedging, there should be a slightly more remote or postponed effect with the euro-dollar rate that has moved, I think, to 120 today.

Unknown Executive

Regarding the development of China in Q4 and Chinese clientele, if you look at the change between Q3 and Q4 on customers, to make it simple, I mean we had more or less the same numbers. There was a slowdown in American customers, but basis of comparison was a bit complicated if you compare with Q4 of last year. So the improvement trends that we noted in Q3 remained stable, and we have a positive development in our Chinese customers, constant in local customers and improvement in offshore.

On Christian Dior, well, on Dior, difficult to give you forecast, less than a month, we resumed selling products by the new Creative Director. It's off to a good start. But if I say that it's off to too good a start, you're going to anticipate astronomical figures. If I say that it's so-so, you're going to think that it's not working. So let's wait until the next meeting.

But for 2025, I mean, there's nothing new. We find that the numbers are slightly above average. But if you look at the 2 brands, they are both growing quarter after quarter from Q1 to Q4. These improvements are worth noting.

As regards to exchange rates and the margins, regarding exchange rates, next year, we expect effects, the same currency effects, but the timetable will be reversed. In other words, what you saw in the numbers I gave you will be more or less the same, but probably in terms of time line, it will be the reverse order. There are hedging effects, but they won't be very different from this year. So in terms of the financial impact, this won't make much difference.

Erwan Rambourg
HSBC Global Investment Research

Erwan Rambourg from HSBC. Three questions from my side, if I may. On Louis Vuitton, you saw quite major initiatives. Any further possibilities for diversification in hospitality or other growth drivers going forward for Louis Vuitton.

Secondly, a question on Moët Hennessy, when you appointed Jean-Jacques with the help of Alexander for that asset, you mentioned restructuring of about 18, 24 months, we're about halfway there. How do you view the situation and the future.

And lastly, an update on Tiffany. Fine acceleration in Q4, perhaps more Bvlgari than with Tiffany. I may be a mistake. An update on where you are on the retail overhaul. Mr. Arnault, I recall you mentioned that the before and after, you increased the revenue by about 25% like-for-like. Don't know what percentage of the real estate you've overhauled and could you talk about productivity in the brand at '26?

Unknown Executive

I'll answer on Vuitton. We have a great many initiatives. For example, you mentioned I didn't mention that at Seoul where we're going soon with the Vuitton teams. We have a quite remarkable achievement there that links the history of Vuitton, and museum example of what we've been doing at Vuitton since the 19th century together with new products in a quite spectacular space and it's off to a flying start.

Concerning Vuitton, it's not a brand that we really want to diversify. We already have a great many products. We have a great many lines. We have 2 creative designers, I repeat. It's also the view of Pietro and Damien Bertrand, unlike Louis Vuitton, it's not a matter of fashion, it's of leather goods, cases and trunks, and we're focusing on that.

Instead of diversifying somewhat erratically, we're remaining focused. It's not because from time to time, there's a hotel room as we have a deal at Avenue Montaigne a room that's of interest to hospitality that's interesting. It means we can receive VIPs and give them certain advantages when they're in the house, but Vuitton's not going to go in the hotel business, we've agreed on that.

Vuitton is focusing instead of diversifying. We have already many product lines to develop to refine further. You see this image here. This -- we have the latest campaign. That's very compelling image for Vuitton. It's the iconic product of Vuitton. This campaign has yielded truly remarkable results and yet it's a product that's been around for some 50 years.

So Vuitton is a truly historic brand with a high focus on quality in which we seek to bring technical refinements. The trunks that we saw at the show last year, Vuitton is the only one that can do this. With the glasses that are the same as the stained glasses at Notre-Dame. The same craftsman, if you call it diversification. But for Vuitton, it's truly, it's core business from Vuitton. Cecile, you like to answer?

Cecile Cabanis
Chief Financial Officer

Do you have a mic on for Jean-Jacques? So I would have been disappointed not to take the floor. Listen, where do we stand on restructuring? It's -- well, it's not really restructuring as such. Together with Alexander, we took up this business, knowing that it would take some time to return to growth. There's the matter of what you have to offer a number of initiatives commented by Mr. Arnault especially around Formula 1 but there is also Pharrell Williams. It might be Moët & Chandon. Likewise, Hennessy, we are trying to improve our offer, improve creation, like our brand is more desirable.

There's also the issue of demand. Demand is not particularly geared towards us. If you look at main market in the U.S., vodka, tequila, whiskey are down. The only category that is growing at all is the ready-to-drink, so there's more cans sold at EUR 3.5. At times of crisis, we said that's the end of it. This is a structural thing. But no, we can see this is cyclical.

The only thing that is growing in the market is the quality of spirits selling at $3 or $4 . And of course, these are small amounts, but this reflects low demand. So maybe 18, maybe 24 months. But of course, demand should be there. It's not quite there yet. It is not in the U.S.

Unknown Executive

Over to Stéphane for Tiffany.

Stéphane Bianchi

On Tiffany, as you said, we're right in the middle of the transformation plan that started out since 2021, and we'll continue into the out-years on the stores. But over and above the stores, it's also a transformation in terms of product. Tiffany was hugely focused on silver products, and we're now pushing gold. We are pushing high jewelry. The high jewelry has tripled in 4 years. The high jewelry rates tripled in 4 years. That's what's happening. Silver, however, has declined by over 1/3 since we took it over. And this to sell more icons as Mr. Arnault mentioned and icons based on gold, diamonds, platinum.

So it's a mammoth transformation plan that's underway between the old and the new mix. The former mix, silver, bronze, we're negative. And on the new mix, we're growing double digit. The problem is that the new mix for the time being is still relatively weak as compared to the former Tiffany. That's the first thing.

The second thing in terms of the new store concept, the new concepts represented about 1/3 in terms of number of stores at the end of 2025 and about 42% of sales, so again 31% the previous. So it's growing, but it remains less than half of our sales, and it only represents 1/3 of the network.

I know a wonderful store that was revamped on Fifth Avenue, which in 2024 we never achieved record in terms of sales. And that has taken away in the December mix that's quite considerable because it's almost doubled its mix in December compared to the rest of the year. So the stores are working extremely well. The difference just to end on your question, the difference between the former concept's performance and the new concept is between some 15 and 20 points. So it's hugely promising for the future.

Luca Solca
Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division

My name is Luca Solca from Bear Sterns (sic) [ Bernstein ]. We find that you're doing fine work to keep costs under control to have targeted capital expenditure to monitor WCR. What are the opportunities for 2026? Can you keep this effort? Is there also a scope effect to take into account? Is that on the menu as it were? And could there be possible disposals? You have disposed of a number of DFS stores already.

Now the question number two, and this may be also related to what Jean-Jacques really just told us. What's your thinking on demand by segment from consumers. We find ourselves in a market where the middle class seems to be slowing down compared to the well-off. At least people have been spending money on the stock exchange, but for the sort of the middle class, these customers. Do you -- is there more work to do to stimulate the demand from them?

And then about watches, we saw TAG Heuer's leadership at the beginning of the year. This seems to be changing. How is that business changing? Are you remaining dedicated to these various brands of watches because this seems to be a challenging business right now.

Unknown Executive

Well, to answer your first question. One can't speak of a menu cut. We work à la carte. So it's very difficult for me to answer your question except when we come to the desired dish. Actually, there are 2 segments. It's always the same. And that's been the case for a long time now. There's the segment of the affluent customers, customers who have the means, very wealthy customers. And then there is the affluent customers. It's both. We have both customer segments, sometimes the most well-off customers stand out for various reasons.

When the stock market is up, indeed, or when they need to invest in products that are more attractive than others. And yet we work a great deal with those customers, especially in the big luxury brands in jewelry, in the most iconic watches. In this regard, I'd like to mention that at Louis Vuitton, over a few years, with La Fabrique du Temps, we managed to produce what is considered by all watch connoisseurs as some of the finest watches in the world that are indeed very successful.

And we could organize one day if you're interested, a visit for some analysts who are fond of watches, a site visit to show it's truly fascinating. And that's what we do with other activities. And of course, these watches with complications, these manual watches is so complicated to manufacture that they're very expensive, and that's for the very high-net-worth customers, but also at Vuitton, on our stores, we try and attract the kind of entry-level customers, so to speak. The range doesn't start at 0 because the entry price remains quite high. So we know that those customers can then move to these higher counter. The younger they start, the more attached they'll be come to the house.

Well, when the economic climate in a country is not so good, obviously, it's firstly, the affluent customers who disappear a bit. That's a fact. But it doesn't mean that the rich are not progressing either because there's no trickle down there. I mean it's a different development.

And on the watches, on TAG Heuer, Mr. Bianchi will tell us about the watches, but we're very confident on TAG Heuer, in particular. And on the watch business, when I see what we've achieved with Vuitton, there's huge potential for the group. But you know TAG Heuer very well.

Stéphane Bianchi

Well, what I can say is that we've just completed LVMH Watch Week in Milan. We had this Napoleone stores and the Louis Vuitton shop and the Tiffany for Guy. We have the Zenith in Tiffany. Anyway, we meet our retailers, and that is -- that week was very successful indeed.

In any case, we started the Formula 1 partnership. We have it going for another 9 years. We invested in Jean Pierre. We took a minority interest last year. We started the Hublot manufacture to extend production of watches through Hublot. We did [ Saignelégier ] for Bvlgari last year. We bought L'Epée.

So all this goes to show that we're very confident in the watch business, and we keep investing. There's no question of stopping that and indeed we denied -- formally denied a rumor that went around regarding we were going to dispose of Zenith. There is never any question of selling Zenith.

So what else can I say? We remain very confident on the watch segment. That segment, well, the time piece segment at large. As you can see with the exports of Swiss watches is experiencing challenges and some of our subcontractors are also experiencing challenges, and we find this in some of the households. We remain confident, and we keep investing.

Yes, Mr. Number two.

Edouard Aubin
Morgan Stanley, Research Division

Edouard Aubin from Morgan Stanley. I had a couple of questions for Mrs. Cabanis. Number one, to my knowledge, you don't have a crystal ball, you don't give us any guidance, and it's not going to start today. But still, can you give us some color on the sensitivity analysis for margins in leather goods, assuming you get a 4% margin. Do you think the margin is going to go up or down? I mean you mentioned the currency effect, but there are also tariffs. There is cost of materials. So that's my first question on Fashion & Leather Goods.

The other question on the cost structure that Mr. Arnault mentioned, some of your competitors, some of your peers are cutting down on their stores. Are you cutting costs on payroll? Or are you also working on cutting in the payroll? And then on the corporate income tax, what's your expectation for the coming year?

Cecile Cabanis
Chief Financial Officer

Well, there are a lot of crystal ball questions there, but I'll try and see if I can answer on question number one, that is the expected level of profit margin on Fashion & Leather Goods, where we are working on costs, of course.

Now to -- in order to stabilize our profit, we need to find renewed growth, and that's what we want to generate. We want to keep costs under control. But what else can we say? We need some growth because, of course, with our gross profit margin we'll be under pressure in organic terms.

Then on the currency effects, as I said, we expect same effect as last year, but the timetable will be reversed.

Regarding the cost structure, per se, well, there's no one big rule saying we'll cut down on, on this budget line or that. it's always a case by case. We may have exceptional initiatives. Nonetheless, we still have to manage the rest of the network. So we keep our discipline stringent on the network.

As a whole on Perfumes & Cosmetics, the profit margin was up 8%. It was a remarkable work on POSM marketing expenses. And so there's no clear-cut answer. It depends on where we stand, where we need to work on to improve the effectiveness of our business model, but everybody is applying the same discipline on costs. But of course, we will -- we expect growth to resume and then we will be in a position to expect better profit margins.

On the tax rate, well, it depends on when you asked the question, last week, 3 weeks ago. It looks as though 2026 will have a tax rate identical to 2025 because the extra tax will be renewed in 2026.

Unknown Executive

Well, on the -- are there any final questions at all asks Bernard Arnault. I see no further questions. Well, yes, here you go.

Unknown Analyst

I'm Boris Ivanov I'm a journalist at [indiscernible]. To my knowledge and unless I'm mistaken, you did not mention the effects of tariffs, what is the currency effect, but could we have some details on that? I imagine that higher tariffs will have effect on your business?

Unknown Executive

Well, I did mention tariffs in my presentation, looking at the gross margin regarding especially Wines & Spirits because you had an effect right there. This is only a partial effect because we had pushed stocks inventories at the beginning of the year. So the real effects will be felt in 2026 over the full year. They will also an effect on Fashion & Leather Goods and Watches & Jewelry. But of course, the pricing power is not the same as in Wines & Spirits. So of course, the bottom line will be different. Anyway, thank you for your attention.

[Statements in English on this transcript were spoken by an interpreter present on the live call.]