Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 22, 2025 4:30 PM EDT

Company Participants

Daniel Briggs - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Robert Goldstein - Chairman, CEO & Treasurer
Patrick Dumont - President, COO & Director
Grant Chum - Executive VP of Asia Operations & Senior VP of Global Gaming Strategy

Conference Call Participants

Daniel Politzer - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Shaun Kelley - BofA Securities, Research Division
Stephen Grambling - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Elizabeth Dove - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Joseph Stauff - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Chad Beynon - Macquarie Research
George Choi - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
David Katz - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
John DeCree - CBRE Securities, LLC, Research Division
Steven Wieczynski - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Sands Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Mr. Daniel Briggs, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at Sands. Sir, the floor is yours.

Daniel Briggs
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Paul. Joining the call today are Rob Goldstein, Chairman and CEO; Patrick Dumont, our President and Chief Operating Officer; Dr. Wilfred Wong, Executive Vice Chairman of Sands China; and Grant Chum, CEO and President of Sands China and EVP of our Asia operations.

Today's conference call will contain forward-looking statements. We will be making those statements under the safe harbor provision of federal securities laws. The language on forward-looking statements included in our press release also applies to our comments made on the call today. The company's actual results may differ materially from the results reflected in those forward-looking statements.

In addition, we will discuss non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our press release.

We have posted an earnings presentation on our website. We will refer to that presentation during the call. [Operator Instructions] This presentation is being recorded.

I'll now turn the call over to Rob.

Robert Goldstein
Chairman, CEO & Treasurer

Thank you, Dan. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us. Marina Bay Sands delivered EBITDA of $743 million. We had forecasted MBS could do $2.5 billion annually. It turns out we were too conservative we should easily exceed that figure in 2025. MBS is currently over $2.1 billion of EBITDA this year with a quarter still to go.

Mass gaming and slot was a record $905 million, reflecting 122% growth from Q3 of 2019 and 35% higher than last year. We are in the right place at the right time with the right product. Singapore is a highly desirable destination and our product is superb. It's difficult to find superlatives described in magnitude of this result, operating performance and MBS is unprecedented in the history of our industry.

Macau delivered $601 million EBITDA for the quarter, which reflects an improvement in our financial results with Typhoon negatively impacted our reported EBITDA by about $20 million. We have underperformed in the Macau market for the past few years. We believe that our buildings will be enough to compete favorably, we were wrong. We've adapted to the market and changed our approach in the second quarter of 2025 to enable us to be more competitive.

Our mass market revenue jumped to 25.4% this quarter, up from 23.6% in the first quarter of 2025. We expect additional share gains and EBITDA growth in the fourth quarter. Our assets remain the strongest in the Macao market. But Londoner is moving towards $1-plus billion of EBITDA. We have meaningful opportunities for growth improvement throughout our Macao property portfolio. Importantly, the Macao market's GGR is growing, when you couple this back with our assets and our recent marketing changes, we believe will continue to improve in the fourth quarter and beyond.

Let's hear it from Patrick.

Patrick Dumont
President, COO & Director

Thanks, Rob. Macao EBITDA was $601 million. If we had held as expected in our rolling program, our EBITDA would have been lower by $2 million. When adjusted for higher-than-expected hold in the rolling segment, our EBITDA margin in the Macao portfolio of properties would have been 31.5%, down 160 basis points compared to the third quarter of 2024. We are focused on delivering revenue and cash flow growth at the Londoner and across the portfolio.

Margin at the Venetian was 35%, while margin at the Londoner was 31.9%. We expect growth in EBITDA as revenues grow and as we use our scale and product advantages together with targeted incentives to better address every market segment. We see opportunity in every segment.

Now turning to Singapore. MBS' EBITDA for the quarter was $743 million at a margin of 51.7%. We had held as expected in our rolling program, our EBITDA would have been lower by $43 million. With this quarter's results, we are putting in place a new methodology for the theoretical hold percentage of rolling baccarat play for the quarter. This new approach has been enabled by the introduction of smart tables on our baccarat games in Singapore. This technology has now been in place at our rolling baccarat roundtables in Marina Bay Sands for over one year.

Please see Slide 7 in the earnings materials for more detail. We have provided theoretical hold rates for rolling baccarat plays for the last 5 quarters at Marina Bay Sands. There will naturally be fluctuations in theoretical hold rate in any specific quarter driven by player betting preferences.

The record financial results of Marina Bay Sands reflect the high -- the impact of high-quality investment and market-leading product and the growth in high-value tourism. We believe we are still in the initial stages of realizing the benefits of our investments in Marina Bay Sands.

Turning to our program to return capital to shareholders. We repurchased $500 million of LVS stock during the quarter. We also paid our recurring quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share. Our Board of Directors has approved an increase in our quarterly dividend of 20% for the 2026 calendar year or $1.20 per share per year or $0.30 per share per quarter.

In addition, during the third quarter and in July, we purchased $337 million of SCL stock, increasing the company's ownership percentage of SCL to 74.76% as of today. We believe repurchases of LVS' equity through our share repurchase program will be meaningfully accretive to the company and its shareholders over the long term. We look forward to continuing to utilize the company's share repurchase program to increase returns to shareholders.

Thanks again for joining the call today. And let's take some questions.