Mastercard Incorporated (MA) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 30, 2025 9:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Devin Corr - Executive Vice President of Investor Relations
Michael Miebach - CEO & Director
Sachin Mehra - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Bryan Bergin - TD Cowen, Research Division
Darrin Peller - Wolfe Research, LLC
James Faucette - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jason Kupferberg - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Bryan Keane - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Harshita Rawat - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Tien-Tsin Huang - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Andrew Schmidt - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Timothy Chiodo - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Sanjay Sakhrani - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Julianne, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Mastercard Incorporated Q3 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

Mr. Devin Corr, Head of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.

Devin Corr
Executive Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Julianne. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our third quarter 2025 earnings call. With me today are Michael Miebach, our Chief Executive Officer; and Sachin Mehra, our Chief Financial Officer. Following comments from Michael and Sachin, the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&A session. It is only then that the queue will open for questions.

You can access our earnings release, supplemental performance data and the slide deck that accompany this call in the Investor Relations section of our website, mastercard.com. Additionally, the release was furnished with the SEC earlier this morning.

Our comments today regarding our financial results will be on a non-GAAP currency-neutral basis unless otherwise noted. Both the release and the slide deck include reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP reported amounts.

Finally, as set forth in more detail in our earnings release, I would like to remind everyone that today's call will include forward-looking statements regarding Mastercard's future performance. Actual performance could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our earnings release and in our recent SEC filings. A replay of this call will be posted on our website for 30 days.

With that, I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Michael Miebach.

Michael Miebach
CEO & Director

Thanks, Devin. Good morning, everyone. We delivered strong results in the third quarter. Net revenues were up 15% overall, and value-added services and solutions net revenue was up 22% versus a year ago on a non-GAAP currency-neutral basis.

Our solid performance is a reflection of our winning strategy, our market-leading innovation and focused execution. We continue to see healthy consumer and business spending in the quarter with the macroeconomic environment still generally supportive. Inflation levels have remained fairly steady and labor markets remain well balanced. Financial markets were near record highs, further contributing to the wealth effect, which helps stimulate spend. Given this backdrop and our diversified business, we are positioned well for ongoing success.

In looking at the quarter, our drumbeat of wins continued. Our partnership approach, combined with our differentiated payments propositions and value-added services and solutions continues to drive wins. This quarter, we have multiple co-brand wins with large airlines and retailers, including Japan Airlines, the Comair in Mexico and Uni-President Group in Taiwan.

We have also expanded our relationships with bank partners globally, a testament to the unique value we bring. In the Nordics, we have renewed our strategic partnership with Nordea on card issuance and services capabilities. And we're happy to announce that Mastercard will be neobank's exclusive network partner in the U.S. as that card program launches, this builds up on our extensive partnership across the Americas.

Earlier this year, we unveiled the Mastercard World Legend card designed specifically for the ultra-high net worth individual. Also launched the Mastercard Collection, a set of globally connected premium benefits and experiences for our World, World Elite and World Legend cardholders. This combined differentiated value proposition helped us win several key affluent portfolios around the world, including First Abu Dhabi Bank in the UAE, Saudi Awwal Bank and Saudi National Bank and Doha Bank in Qatar.

In Brazil, we are partnering with several banks, including Itau, Banco do Brasil, C6 Bank and BTG on new affluent portfolios, reinforcing our strong credit position in that key market.

Moving on from our recent wins. We are focused on executing against our three strategic priorities to unlock long-term growth. I'll touch on each, starting with consumer payments.

The consumer secular opportunity is tremendous with $11 trillion in GDV and 1.5 trillion transactions still happening in cash and check around the globe and even further opportunity with China and a counter account bill payments. We are targeting these flows by expanding our acceptance footprint across under-penetrated verticals and by opening closed-loop payment networks.

Let's look at the rent vertical. The volume of rental payments globally is substantial. Today, most of the payments are paid through check or ACH are now are recurring in nature. So, naturally a focus for us. Through our co-brand and services capabilities, we have successfully unlocked acceptance at scale with partners.

This quarter, we partnered with Renti, a rental management platform in New Zealand. This relationship both unlocks card acceptance and includes rich rewards for their customers who choose Mastercard. A powerful example of how we are delivering value across this ecosystem.

Moving on to closed-loop payment networks. This quarter, we deployed new contactless acceptance across closed-loop transit systems in Italy, Japan, Chile and with the Chengdu and Guangzhou Metro systems in China. Altogether, we have digitized hundreds of systems across major cities around the globe.

The simple tap and go experience is a great way to shift consumer behavior and we are seeing strong results. It also can be a transaction multiplier rather than buying one monthly metro card, we see a transaction for each ride. Volumes are up too. Through the third quarter of this year, Mastercard GDV on open-loop transit systems increased 25% year-over-year on a local currency basis. Not to mention the halo effect this can drive in everyday spend categories, and that is powerful.

We're also driving incremental volumes from local stored value digital wallets over the Mastercard network through our partnership with Alipay+, a network of 36 e-wallets, we're now expanding cross-border payment enablement to Kakao Pay in South Korea, following earlier launches with AlipayHK and GCash. And in India, we are working with PhonePe to enable their consumers to transact in person and online using their Mastercard payment credentials.

Digital wallets are increasingly partnering with Mastercard because of the value they see in our unmatched global acceptance across hundreds of millions merchant locations and digital access points.

Agentic Commerce is here, and we're at the center of it. With our global acceptance reach, trusted brand and services capabilities, we're instrumental in creating the foundation for agentic commerce. We're now working with key players such as OpenAI on their agentic commerce protocol and with Google and Cloudflare to set industry standards, all to drive safety and security.

To Mastercard Agent Pay, we're enabling agents to facilitate transaction over a Mastercard's payment network in a secure and scalable way. You already have agents registered and have tools in place for easy onboarding as others are ready.

Our first agentic transaction took place on our network this quarter at pivotal moment in payments, and that's just the start. U.S. Bank and Citibank cardholders can now use Agent Pay. The rest of our U.S. issuers will be enabled in November with a global rollout to follow early next year.

And the beauty of it all, we've made it easy for merchants across the globe to benefit on day 1 with the same trust and security they are used to do from us today.

Our acceptance framework enables any Mastercard merchant to participate without significant development or integration, a no-code approach. For agentic payments, we bring trust and transparency and have the right capabilities and acceptance reach. We have strong partnerships with the players I just mentioned and many more, including Walmart, to accelerate the adoption of agentic commerce using cards through Mastercard Agent Pay.

And our services play a big role both today but even more so as we look to the future. Players across the payments ecosystem are partnering with Mastercard and our dedicated consulting teams to ready themselves for agentic commerce.

Agents through Mastercard's inside tokens can make agentic commerce even more personalized. By harnessing our proprietary data, we will be able to provide agents with predictive insights to help drive smarter decisions and recommendations.

The shift we're seeing in commerce is creating further opportunity for our capabilities, more consulting, more loyalty, more security and so on. The runway for agentic focused services in consumer and business use cases is long, and we're well positioned to capture this opportunity.

Like agentic commerce, we believe stablecoins are an attractive and growing opportunity for our network, believe in offering consumers and merchants the choice in how they transact.

For years, our network has therefore enabled crypto and stablecoins to be purchased and spent across our acceptance footprint. We have approximately 130 crypto co-brand card programs in market with associated volumes and transactions growing at a healthy clip. We're expanding our partnerships through new deals with consensus on the MetaMask card in the U.S. and with Binance in Brazil. We also continue to see strong growth in the on-ramp as well with quarter 3 year-to-date transactions up over 25% with spend at crypto merchants.

Moving on to commercial and new payment flows. The B2B opportunity is massive, and we are deploying a targeted strategy to capture it. Small business remains a top priority. Over the last year, we have increased small business Mastercard in market by more than 10%.

Key to our growth has been working with our traditional issuing partners such as Carrefour Financial Services in Spain, but also through alternative distributors. This quarter, we partnered with Zaggle, a spend management provider in India. Biz2Credit, a small business financing platform in the U.S., and RTS, a transportation services provider in the U.S. to distribute commercial and small business cards to their customer bases. Similarly, we are working with Instacart in the U.S. to issue small business cards, offering rich rewards and instant payouts using Mastercard Move capabilities.

Our virtual cards drive benefits across the ecosystem. Suppliers get paid faster with certainty and streamlined reconciliation. Buyers improved working capital and gain more control over spend, all in a simple and secure way.

[ BBVR ] will now be issuing Mastercard virtual cards to their travel agency customers in Mexico and there are plans to expand the solution beyond to South America and Europe. We're making it easier for corporates to use virtual card capabilities within their existing workflows. Now with more than 10 global B2B and T&E platforms on board with several regional partnerships also in place.

Working alongside issuers, acquirers and payment facilitators to embed card payment tools and unlock acceptance within the platforms that buyers and suppliers already use every day. And we continue to deliver value to the supplier through simplified reconciliation tools and flexible B2B economics. We have offered flexible rates in the travel space and in the U.S. for domestic business-to-business flows for years.

Looking at the U.S. program, we have nearly doubled the number of customers participating over the last 2 years. Given its success, we are scaling flexible rate programs across the globe.

Next, Mastercard Move. Our disbursement and remittances capabilities remain strong with over 35% transaction growth this past quarter. To further scale adoption, we are integrating Mastercard Move into leading core banking platforms, including Infosys this quarter. Penetrating key markets in EMEA through our partnerships with Worldpay and STC Bank. And in China, we've enabled more ways for consumers to make outbound remittances across our billions of endpoints.

In June, we announced how we have embedded stablecoins into Mastercard Move capabilities to support disbursements, remittances and B2B use cases. This spans prefunding with stablecoins to sending stablecoins across the globe, which can be received in any local fiat currency or support a stablecoin. We continue to execute against this roadmap now with prefunding capabilities in place with customers in Europe, Middle East, Africa, including Pay Send this quarter.

Moving on to our third strategic pillar, services. We have curated an expansive services portfolio featuring security, consumer engagement and business and market insights. Our services differentiate our payment network and drive meaningful value for our customers beyond the transaction itself. We're actively driving growth by further penetrating our existing customers, diversifying into new customer types, and through new innovations.

Let's look at each of them. We have extended our reach and share of wallet across our bank customers. We now have strategic relationships with the retail bank as well as marketing, loyalty and security offers across several of our customers. A great example is how we're building on a successful partnership with the Rogers Bank in Canada.

We expanded our collaboration with the parent company, Rogers Communications to provide fraud prevention security offerings, and payment gateway solutions. They are also an initial partner to use our newly announced Mastercard merchant cloud offering, which I will touch on later. And we're expanding our customer base across merchants, governments and digital players.

A few key examples from this quarter include the Polish Ministry of Digital Affairs who will use Recorded Future's Threat Intelligence capability. Equifax in Australia. We will be using our open finance capabilities to help inform their customers' lending practices to underserved consumers. Beyond that, we are continuously innovating to further penetrate and grow the $165 billion serviceable market we outlined at last year's Investor Day.

We continue to innovate within payments. Last month, we launched on-demand decisioning, a fully customize rules engine that gives issuers greater flexibility and control of payment authorizations. This is a great example of how our network can help issuers optimize payment portfolios and strengthen their user experience in a fast, efficient way.

For the merchant community, we launched a merchant cloud offering, Mastercard's acceptance, gateway tokenization, fraud and insight solutions through a unified platform. Partners can now simply integrate these services into their propositions or resell directly to their customers. This is a great example of how we are delivering our innovation at scale.

We're also extending our value beyond the transaction by leveraging insights from our rich and extensive data sets. By combining Mastercard's payment expertise and global network visibility with recorded future's leading cyber threat intelligence capabilities we were excited to recently announce Mastercard Threat Intelligence.

Issuers and acquirers using Mastercard Threat Intelligence can proactively detect cyber attacks in order to prevent payment fraud. Mastercard Threat Intelligence complements our existing cybersecurity intelligence, fraud, scoring and defense functionalities.

And to conclude, we recently launched Mastercard Commerce Media, a new digital media network that makes advertising more personalized, relevant and effective. Advertisers are under pressure to prove that every dollar spend drives real outcome. Mastercard Commerce Media uniquely helps advertisers serve tailored offers to the right consumer at the right time by using our proprietary spend insights. Once the offer has been served, we're able to measure the effectiveness of each ad by linking it directly to a purchase made.

Building off our existing loyalty programs and technology, we're able to connect the 500 million enrolled in permission consumers and 25,000 merchant advisers -- advertisers on day 1. As you can see, we're relentlessly focused on delivering value to our customers, and that's why customers continue to choose Mastercard.

So with that, I'll wrap it up. We delivered another strong quarter, a significant opportunity ahead. The fundamentals of our business are strong. I am very optimistic about the future of Mastercard. Our proven growth algorithm, differentiated solutions and continuous innovation positions us to deliver and win as we've demonstrated time and time again. It's an exciting time in payments, and Mastercard is at the forefront.

Sachin, over to you.

Sachin Mehra
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Michael. Let's turn to Page 3, which shows our financial performance for the third quarter on a currency-neutral basis, excluding replicable special items and the impact of gains and losses on our equity investments.

Net revenue was up 15%, reflecting continued growth in our payment network and our value-added services and solutions. Acquisitions contributed 1 ppt to this growth. Operating expenses increased 14%, including a 4 ppt increase from acquisitions. And operating income was up 15%, which includes a 1 ppt headwind from acquisitions. Net income and EPS increased 8% and 11%, respectively, driven primarily by the strong operating income growth, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate due to Pillar 2 and a change in our geographic mix of earnings. The tax rate in the quarter was higher than expected due to a discrete tax expense. EPS was $4.38, which includes a $0.10 contribution from share repurchases. During the quarter, we repurchased $3.3 billion worth of stock and an additional $1.2 billion through October 27, 2025.

Now turning to Page 4. Let's first look at some of our key volume drivers for the third quarter on a local currency basis. Worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV increased by 9% year-over-year. In the U.S., GDV increased by 7% with credit growth of 7% and debit growth of 7%. Outside of the U.S., volume increased 10% with credit growth of 10% and debit growth of 9%. Overall, cross-border volume increased 15% globally for the quarter, reflecting continued growth in both travel and non-travel related cross-border spending.

Turning to Page 5. Switched transactions grew 10% year-over-year in Q3. We continue to see an increase in contactless penetration, which in Q3 stood at 77% of all in-person switched purchase transactions. This is up 6 ppt since the same period last year. In addition, card growth was 6%. Globally, there are 3.6 billion Mastercard and Maestro-branded cards issued.

Turning to Slide 6 for a look into our net revenue growth rates for the third quarter discussed on a currency-neutral basis. Payment Network net revenue increased 10%, primarily driven by domestic and cross-border transaction and volume growth. It also includes growth in rebates and incentives. Value-added services and solutions net revenue increased 22%. Acquisitions contributed approximately 3 ppt to this growth. The remaining 19% increase was primarily driven by growth in our underlying drivers, strong demand across security, digital and authentication solutions, consumer acquisition and engagement services and business and market insights and pricing.

Now, let's turn to Page 7 to discuss key metrics related to the Payment Network. Again, all growth rates are described on a currency-neutral basis, unless otherwise noted.

Looking quickly at each key metric. Domestic assessments were up 6%, while worldwide GDV grew 9%. The 3 ppt difference is primarily driven by mix. Cross-border assessments increased 16%, while cross-border volumes increased 15%. The 1 ppt difference is driven by pricing in international markets, partially offset by mix.

Transaction processing assessments were up 15%, while switch transactions grew 10%. On an unrounded basis, the 4 ppt difference is primarily due to favorable mix as well as some benefit from pricing and revenue from FX volatility. Other network assessments were $255 million this quarter.

Moving on to Page 8. You can see that on a non-GAAP currency-neutral basis, excluding special items, total adjusted operating expenses increased 14%, which includes a 4 ppt impact from acquisitions. Excluding acquisitions, the growth of total adjusted operating expenses was primarily driven by increased spending to support various strategic initiatives, including investing in our infrastructure, geographic expansion, enhancing and delivering our products and services and advertising and marketing. Total adjusted operating expenses were lower than expected this quarter, primarily due to the timing of expenses between the third and fourth quarter.

Turning to Page 9, let me comment on the operating metric trends. Starting with Q3, all our switch metrics are generally in line with Q2 and remained strong. As we look to the first 4 weeks of October, our metrics continue to remain strong, generally in line with the third quarter. Of note, U.S. switched volumes saw a sequential decline, primarily due to the expected Capital One debit migration as well as some tougher comps related to weather impacts in 2024. Overall, we continue to see healthy consumer and business spending.

Turning to Page 10. I wanted to share our thoughts for the remainder of the year. The headline is that our business remains strong and consumer and business spending remains healthy. We delivered another strong quarter. The macroeconomic environment is supportive with balanced unemployment rates, wage growth continuing to outpace the rate of inflation for the most part and the wealth effect remaining intact. That said, there continues to be some ongoing geopolitical and economic uncertainty.

We remain well positioned for the opportunities ahead, driven by a resilient and diversified business model, the significant opportunity for further secular shift to digital forms of payment and strong demand for our value-added services and solutions. We remain laser-focused on executing against our strategy and remaining at the forefront of payments and services as demonstrated by the innovative new solutions that Michael just highlighted. And we do all of this while also maintaining a disciplined capital planning approach.

Now turning to our expectations for the fourth quarter. We assume continued healthy consumer and business spending. We expect year-over-year net revenue growth to be at the high end of a low double-digits range on a currency-neutral basis, excluding acquisitions.

As mentioned last quarter, our rebates and incentives as a percentage of our payment network assessments is expected to be higher in the second half of 2025. We continue to see Q4 having the highest contra percentage relative to the other quarters, primarily driven by timing within the year and normal seasonality.

For the quarter, acquisitions are forecasted to add 1 to 1.5 ppt to the net revenue growth rate, and we expect a tailwind of 4 to 4.5 ppt from foreign exchange for the quarter. From an operating expense standpoint, we expect Q4 growth to be at the low double digits range versus a year ago. Again, on a currency-neutral basis, excluding acquisitions and special items. Acquisitions are forecasted to add 4 to 5 ppt to this OpEx growth, while we expect an approximately 2 ppt headwind from foreign exchange for the quarter.

Now turning to the full year 2025. We continue to expect net revenues to grow at the low teens range on a currency-neutral basis, excluding acquisitions. Acquisitions are expected to add 1 to 1.5 ppt to this growth rate for the year, and we estimate a tailwind of 1 to 2 ppt from foreign exchange.

From an operating expense standpoint, we continue to expect growth to be at the low end of a low double-digits range versus a year ago on a currency-neutral basis, excluding acquisitions and special items. Acquisitions are forecasted to increase the OpEx growth rate for the year by 4 to 5 ppt, while we expect a headwind of 0 to 1 ppt from foreign exchange.

Other items to keep in mind on other income and expenses in Q4, we expect an expense of approximately $110 million. This excludes gains and losses on our equity investments, which are excluded from our non-GAAP metrics. We expect our non-GAAP tax rate to be around 21% for Q4 and between 20.5% and 21% for the full year.

And with that, I will turn the call back over to Devin.

Devin Corr
Executive Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Sachin. Thank you, Michael. Julianne, you may now open up the call for questions.