Mobileye Global Inc. (MBLY) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Daniel Galves - Chief Communications Officer
Amnon Shashua - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director
Moran Rojansky - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

George Gianarikas - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
Mark Delaney - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Joseph Spak - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Xin Yu - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Gautam Narayan - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Colin Rusch - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Joshua Buchalter - TD Cowen, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Mobileye Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Dan Galves. Mr. Galves, please go ahead.

Daniel Galves
Chief Communications Officer

Thank you, Donna. Hello, everyone. Welcome to Mobileye's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call for the period ending December 27, 2025.

Please note that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on the business environment as we currently see it. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the accompanying press release, which includes additional information on the specific factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Additionally, on this call, we will refer to both GAAP and non-GAAP figures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided in our posted earnings release.

Joining us on the call today, as usual, are Professor Amnon Shashua, Mobileye's CEO and President; Moran Shemesh, Mobileye's CFO; and Nimrod Nehushtan, Mobileye's EVP of Business Development and Strategy. Thanks. And now I'll turn the call over to Amnon.

Amnon Shashua
Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director

Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining our earnings call. As I look back on 2025, there are a number of meaningful positives to highlight both for our company and the industry.

In a very uncertain geopolitical environment, demand for our products came in higher than expected throughout 2025, demonstrating the resilience of the auto industry and our product offerings. Results were quite strong with revenue up 15%, adjusted operating profit up 45% and operating cash flow up more than 50%.The industry began to clarify the structure and features of the next generation of ADAS for mass market vehicles, several forces are coming together here. Demand for incremental safety, demand for convenience in the form of highway hands-off driving and the need to consolidate the technology on a single-ECU to keep the systems cost low. Mobileye's EyeQ6 High chip is very well positioned, and we won the first 2 major programs with two of the biggest 6 OEMs in the world.

Waymo's commercialization provided a number of supporting proof points on consumer acceptance and demand for autonomous mobility services. This led to a major uptick in demand signals from transportation network companies and public transport groups, which led to an expansion of expected volume through our Volkswagen ecosystem to 100,000 units by 2033. We are now 1 year closer to the launch of our advanced products with the Volkswagen Group. We expect the first major public milestone to be removal of the safety drivers in MOIA's robotaxi fleet in 2026.

We are implementing a unique fast-think, slow-think structure to our advanced products that we believe accelerates both precision and scalability. This includes novel technologies like Vision-Language-Semantic-Action models and artificial community intelligence.

And finally, Mobileye took a decisive step to expand its footprint into the humanoid robotics field with the acquisition of Mentee Robotics. Mentee has achieved a fully vertically integrated low-cost, highly capable robot that has a clear path to commercialization into the structured environment of industrial and logistics services field and with its distinctive technology to cater to unstructured environments like home use cases.

Aside from our 2025 results, we detailed all of these areas in my CES talk on January 6. I encourage anyone with an interest in Mobileye or just physical AI in general to make sure to view that presentation.

Turning to guidance. Moran will spend some time on it, but I'll address it briefly. We're encouraged by the volume growth we are expecting despite global auto production that's expected to be flattish again. And while we don't expect the volume levels of Q1 to be sustained throughout the year, it's a strong signal for the year and order flows for Q1 has been rising for the last month or two.

Turning to technology. At CES, I talked a bit about the debate around approach, specifically this concept of data in commands out, which is a false debate because no legitimate actors in our field are actually doing that. There's always a need for structure and architecture and everyone's architectures have evolved given advancements in AI over the last few years, including ours.

We introduced two new innovations that are accelerating our path to precision scalable autonomous vehicles. One is Artificial Community Intelligence referred to as ACI. This is a simulation concept using a sales play reinforcement learning technique that we are using to train our planning engine, also known as driving policy. This is the first ever productization of a technique proposed in academic research. A strong motivation for ACI is that the sample complexity for planning is much higher than for perception because the multi-agent nature of driving where actions that you take will impact the actions of other world users. Therefore, the amount of data one needs to collect could be unwieldy even for large data collection fleets. At this solution, we have created simulators that can achieve 1 billion hours of training overnight.

Mobileye has unique advantages here since our REM maps, which cover much of the globe can be used as a realistic and diverse baseline structure for the training. The other advantage is we have developed sophisticated Sim2Real techniques that have the required understanding of the noise model of our perception engine when transferring the driving policy to the real world. That Sim2Real technology is also very relevant to humanoid robotics and will be a key area of technology sharing between Mobileye and Mentee.

We also introduced a fast-think, slow-think concept that utilizes specialized vision language models to provide contextual information and to address robustness to vehicle decision-making. This is not necessarily about safety. It's more about understanding the semantics of complex scenes. For example, a scene where a policeman signaled that the road they would like to take is blocked. The safety layer ensures that we won't hit the policeman, but we also need to understand the scene, figure out that we shouldn't try to overtake the policeman, but rather we should either wait or take a different route. This is what slow-thinking gives. Since this is not safety critical, the contextual information can be inputed into the system at a lower frequency than perception, which is typically analyzed at 10 frames per second.

Structuring our architecture with fast-think and slow-think component, saves compute and even brings use of cloud-based compute into the picture. As a result, we can put a very sophisticated VLM on the in-car compute, but call on much bigger VLMs in the cloud when the situation warrants. This has very positive effect on the mean time between intervention metrics, but can also eventually lead to scalability benefits in terms of cars per teleoperator as the VLM can replace a human teleoperator in many cases.

Turning briefly to our announced acquisition of Mentee Robotics. Most of the AI that humans are using every day is in the digital world. The two main applications of AI in the physical world are autonomous vehicles and robotics. It makes sense for these two expressions of physical AI to be together because there's a great deal of technology overlap. Both extensively use computer vision and control, fast-slow thinking concepts, make heavy use of VLMs and extensive Sim2Real techniques. Mentee itself compared to other companies we evaluated has a superior combination of strength, including a high level of vertical integration, a pure AI approach with the ability to demonstrate high-level capabilities with no tailor operation, a design strategy that results in an optimized cost versus usefulness ratio and above all, a distinctive AI technique to do continuous on-the-job learning from passive demonstrations.

A truly practical approach to capitalize on the most near-term industrial and logistics markets, and then expand to more challenging markets over time. We believe access to mobilize tools, simulation and data training infrastructure will accelerate Mentee's development. And the number of technologies developed for robots such as self-play simulation and Sim2Real techniques can also bolster mobilize AV development. Finally, there is potential for catalysts as we continue to demonstrate the strong capabilities of the Mentee robot and execute on customer proof-of-concept work in the near term.

I will now turn the call over to Moran.

Moran Rojansky
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Amnon, and thanks for joining the call, everyone. Before I begin, please be aware that all my comments on profitability will refer to non-GAAP measurements. The primary excluding Mobileye's non-GAAP numbers is amortization of intangible assets, which is mainly related to Intel's acquisition of Mobileye in 2017. We also exclude stock-based compensation. Our full year 2025 revenue of $1.9 billion slightly exceeded the high end of our prior guidance. Full year revenue was up 15% year-over-year compared to our original guidance of 6% growth at the midpoint. It was a very good year where a combination of minor upside in global production trends, EyeQ program launches and higher-than-expected ADAS and supervision volumes from China OEMs led to significant growth.

Full year adjusted operating income is $280 million (sic) [ $220 million ] up 45% year-over-year, and margin was 15%, up about 300 basis points versus 2024. The fourth quarter included a nonrecurring expense of $7 million related to workforce efficiency initiatives we undertook in Q4. That expense was not part of our guidance as of the October earnings call. So if you exclude that, adjusted operating income would have also been slightly above the high end of the guidance. Like I said earlier, we saw consistent positive revisions from our customers throughout 2025, and we've continued to see that over the last month or two during our 2026 planning process. 2025 EyeQ volume was $35.6 million across the full year, which was well above our original expectation of $32 million to $34 million. We've seen a fairly consistent demand trend of 9 million units per quarter with some minor fluctuations across quarters. For example, in 2025, Q2 and Q3 were higher than trend. Q1 and Q4 were a bit lower.

One more point on Q4 before turning to the future. Modest upside to the higher end of our prior guidance was related to higher-than-expected SuperVision [revenue]. EyeQ volume was consistent with the high end of our guidance of about 8.2 million units. This level at the start of the quarter looked a bit below the demand trend as our customers desire to end the year with lean inventory, but the demand trend in Q4 ended up higher than we expected. As a result, we believe that inventory at our Tier 1 customers ended 2025 extremely low. We believe there is some level of adjusting safety stock that will occur in Q1 to get back to normal levels. We expect about 10 million EyeQ units shipped in Q1, which supports our outlook of approximately 19% year-over-year growth in the first quarter. After that, customer forecast indicate a reversion to the trend of slightly above 9 million units per quarter.

Turning to the full year guidance. We are expecting revenue in the range of $1.9 billion to $1.98 billion, representing flattish to 5% growth. The midpoint of our guidance incorporates EyeQ volume of slightly above 37 million units, which again consists of 10 million units in Q1 and an assumption of a bit over $9 million per quarter in the balance of the year. If we look specifically at our top 10 customers, we are assuming that their overall production is down 2%, but our volume with those customers is up 6% at the midpoint. This includes about 700,000 units for a new OEM program that requires two EyeQ4 chips per car. That program is clearly a positive, and we will generate higher gross profit in dollars per vehicle. But since the second chip is lower priced relative to the first, it has an impact on overall ASP and gross margin.

For Chinese OEMs, we are expecting a decline of about 0.5 million units compared to 2025, which was a bit above 3 million units. We are encouraged by the significant growth in China OEM volumes in 2025. It aligned with their export volume growth, the area where our business is the strongest with those customers. We see no reason why that wouldn't continue into 2026, but prefer to remain conservative given we only have a short-term visibility into order flow with China OEMs. Gross margin will be down somewhat on a year-over-year basis, driven by continuation of EyeQ5 related cost headwinds. We discussed this on the October earnings call as an impact to the second half of 2025 that would continue through 2026 and then will gradually decline beginning in 2027. We also have modest vehicle mix headwinds and the impact of the dual-chip program mentioned above.

Turning to operating expenses. 2025 ended up at $1.003 billion. This was slightly above our original budget of $995 million, accounted for by the nonrecurring termination-related bookings in Q4 mentioned above. In 2026, we are expecting around $1.1 billion or 10% growth. The underlying growth in OpEx is approximately 5%, consisting of normal salary and benefit inflation as well as additional infrastructure to support execution of the advanced products in 2026 and 2027. On top of that, we are including Mentee R&D expenses. Finally, we are experiencing an FX headwind related to appreciation of the Israeli currency versus the U.S. dollar that meaningfully raises our headcount cost in dollar terms.

This is being mostly offset by the workforce efficiency initiatives noted above, but not completely. To conclude, we are almost 1 month into 2026 and continue to see positive demand signals from our customers on the core business. As Amnon discussed, we are also seeing very good execution progress ahead of a large number of advanced product launches over the coming 1 to 2 years as well as accelerating momentum in customer demand for next-gen higher ASP ADAS and the transformative robotaxi business.

Thank you, and we will now take your questions.

