Meituan (OTCPK:MPNGY) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 28, 2025 6:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Scarlett Xu - VP, Head of Capital Markets & Joint Company Secretary
Xing Wang - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Shaohui Chen - CFO & Senior VP

Conference Call Participants

Ronald Keung - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Gary Yu - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Kenneth Fong - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Thomas Chong - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Ya Jiang - Citic Securities Co., Ltd., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Meituan Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call.

[Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the conference over to Scarlett Xu, VP and Head of Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Scarlett Xu
VP, Head of Capital Markets & Joint Company Secretary

Thank you, operator. Good evening, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our Third Quarter of 2025 Earnings conference call. Joining us today are Mr. Xing Wang, Chairman and CEO; and Mr. Shaohui Chen, Senior Vice President and CFO of Meituan. For today's call, management will first provide a review of our third quarter of 2025 results and then conduct a Q&A session.

Before we start, we would like to remind you that our presentation contains forward-looking statements which include a number of risks and uncertainties and may differ from actual results in the future. This presentation also contains unaudited non-IFRS accounting standards financial measures that should be considered in addition to and not as a substitute for measures of the company's financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards. For a detailed discussion of risk factors and non-IFRS accounting standard measures, please refer to disclosure documents in the IR section of our website.

Now I will turn the call over to Mr. Xing Wang.

Xing Wang
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Scarlett. Hello, everyone. We are in the third quarter, we actively responded to the shift in the competitive landscape of food delivery and quick commerce. Meituan remains the go-to platform of local services for Chinese consumers. Over 800 million consumers use our services, covering everything from food and dining, quick commerce to services retail and more. Specifically, the Meituan's app DAU jumped over 20% year-over-year in the third quarter. On average, users transact with us at least once a week and our top-tier and high-quality users engage with the platform every day. Across all local commerce businesses, we have stepped up product and service iteration to enhance user mindshare and strengthen our competitive advantages.

Thanks to our fully upgraded Meituan membership [ Mei tuán huìyuán ] we have effectively boosted for selling activities and enhanced the core user stickiness. We are also the primary platform for merchants' long-term growth, empowering them with the technology and supply innovations and helping them to integrate AI into their operation to improve efficiency.

First, let's talk about our food delivery business. Here, we continue to leverage our competitive strengths to deliver industry-leading operational efficiency and a superior consumer experience. Our sustained focus on service quality and the healthy development of the industry has enabled us to navigate a quite dynamic market, strengthen our consumer mindshare and reinforce our leadership in the food delivery sector.

Amid intense competition, we stepped up supply side innovation and service upgrades. For our innovative supply models like Ping Hao Fan, or Shen Qiang Shou or Pingbai Weiqing Dian as branded satellite stores. And we further deepened our collaborations with quality merchants. It allows us to offer consumers a wider range of high-quality products across all price bands. And we also selected top-tier restaurant merchants on [Foreign Language] based on real and authentic data and matched the quality offerings precisely with our high-quality food delivery users.

Additionally, we have rolled out premium services like on-time guarantee [ Zhunshí baozhèng ] and one-to-one express delivery, [ yi duì yi jí sòng ]. These measures have strengthened our core competitiveness in fulfillment and elevated the delivery experience for consumers and solidified our advantages in user structures. We remain as the Chinese consumers' go-to food delivery platform.

In the third quarter, both DAU and MTU as Monthly Transacting User for food delivery hit an all-time high. We further expanded our advantage in user structures. In addition, we stepped up our efforts to address ecosystem issues and invested in the ecosystem development, specifically for couriers' welfare, we expanded the courier pension insurance subsidy program to a nationwide publish beginning in November and extended an occupational injury insurance to 17 provinces and cities.

We have also implemented a comprehensive courier welfare scheme, which include critical illness support, educational funds for couriers' children and skill development and academic advancement opportunities for couriers as well as benefits such as work meals, health checkups and travel subsidies.

Moreover, we have built couriers homes [ qishou zhi jia ] rather stations across the country to provide our couriers with convenient facilities and services. Going forward, we will keep enhancing couriers' welfare and protection. And as consumers' preferred quick commerce platform, Meituan Instant Shopping continues to lead the industry's rapid growth and service upgrade. In Q3, both new user growth and core user purchase frequency further increased. As we continue to diversify supply, the proportion of users buying across multiple categories has been steady on the rise. This shows our everything now consumer mindshare is getting even stronger.

New supply formats like Meituan InstaMart, Shandiàn Sòng expanded rapidly, bringing this high certainty lifestyle to more regions across China. We also teamed up with the leading brands in the liquor and apparel categories, which reflected these top brands recognition of quick commerce's value and their trust in Meituan.

In October, we officially launched a branded flagship InstaMart Pingbai Guanqi Shandian Chang, providing retail brands with full quick commerce infrastructure, warehousing, on-demand delivery and the digital system. By leveraging our strengths in user traffic ecosystem and online capabilities, we empowered brands to drive user growth, boost sales and connect more deeply with younger consumers.

Beyond that, we are committed to continuously upgrading our quick commerce services. After rolling out the industry's first full cycle service assurance program, [ Anxin San Gou ] we recently introduced an end-to-end authentic product verification process for chinese [indiscernible] and launched the industry's first alliance for high-quality fresh-cut fruits brand [ Huo Qian ]. As the industry leaders, we will keep setting benchmarks that focus on premium quality and top-tier service. Overall, we have built the world's largest and most efficient intracity on-demand delivery network, delivering a best-in-class fulfillment experience to consumers.

Our platform has accumulated a large user base of high-quality users with a very strong purchasing power. We also provide merchants with industry-leading services and create the most diverse supply. These valuable assets built up over more than a decade will fuel the long-term growth of our food delivery business. They will also serve as a solid foundation for our efficient expansion in the broader quick commerce space.

Now let's turn to our in-store business. In the third quarter, both our merchant base and user base reached new highs with a nearly 20% year-over-year increase and user transaction frequency continued to grow robustly. We further refined our product and content ecosystem. Our goal is to give every consumer simple, more reliable reference for purchase decisions. To date, our platform has accumulated over 20 billion authentic user -- consumer reviews with nearly 3.5 billion new reviews added in the past 12 months.

Additionally, we are now using AI to filter out low-quality reviews and those manipulative contents. This way, we can ensure a comprehensive authentic review ecosystem that provides a truly useful decision-making support for consumers. We also expanded the reach and influence of our high-quality list, including the Black Pearl Guide, hidden Jewels and our Must-Eat list Bi Chi Bang. Currently, these 2 lists cover 34 and 144 cities, respectively.

Moving forward, we will expand to more regions and welcome more quality restaurants to join our list. Beyond that, we have iterated products like pickup now, [indiscernible] 12:26 smart ordering and one-click payments, extending coverage to more merchants and meeting consumers' more diverse and personalized needs.

Moreover, we further promoted our safe learning program, [ Anquán xuéxí jìhuà ] in the broader education space and expanded our safe series, [ Anquán xìliè ] to more categories such as fitness. We offer flexible redemption options, which has significantly boosted consumer trust in prepaid services. For self-service formats such as an unmanned chess and cards, playing cards rooms and self-service KTV, we upgraded our booking system to deliver a smoother hassle-free experience for consumers from reservation all the way to service fulfillment. In healthcare and pharmaceuticals, we expanded our video and phone consultation services to include more doctors from Grade 3A hospitals, [ San jí jia deng yiyuàn ] and offering -- we offered 24/7 instant consultations plus 30 minutes prescription drug delivery.

We improved in-store verification service for dental care and medical aesthetics and standardized supply chain management to build end-to-end consumer trust. During the third quarter, we launched the 2025 Polaris medical aesthetic guide [ Beijing Yi Mei Bang ] which has set industry standards and raised the bar for service quality. These are just a few examples.

Going forward, we will continue to leverage our deep industrial and consumer insights to turn more offline services transactions into trusted online transactions for consumers. And now let's turn to our new initiative segment. And this segment delivered another solid performance in the third quarter.

Our grocery retail businesses, especially for Xiaoxiang Supermarkets and Kuailvdian sustained a strong growth momentum. We not only solidified our market position, but also achieved improvement in operational efficiency. And additionally, Keeta accelerated its global coverage. After launching in Qatar in August, we entered Kuwait and the UAE in September, deepening our presence in these key Middle Eastern markets.

In October, Keeta also kicked off a pilot operation in Brazil. Going forward, we will continue to leverage our strengths in product technology and operation know-how to deliver superior consumer -- and delivery experience for consumers in more parts of the world. After 6 months of iterating our promoting Meituan membership, we have achieved good progress.

We added new member benefits and exclusive offers across multiple local service categories. This has notably strengthened our user mindshare and boosted member transaction frequency. Specifically, a large number of our mid-tier users have upgraded their membership tiers and the number of high-value members kept growing steadily even in the recent very fierce competitive environment.

It's a clear sign of our unique edge in serving high-value users. What's more, our enhanced Meituan membership program is driving growth across businesses in key areas. It supports user acquisition and traffic operation and transaction growth and marketing while also effectively fueling cross-selling among various businesses and consumption scenarios.

Moving forward, we will leverage our competitive advantages, broad coverage in local services, continue to refine the membership program and increase user engagement and transaction frequency. During the third quarter, we continued to invest in AI and achieved multiple milestones. For example, we launched several models in our LongCat-Flash series, all delivering leading performance. And we rolled out a range of AI decision-making and application tools tailored specifically for restaurant merchants.

And we also launched Xiaomei app, a smart life assistant for consumers. and currently is in larger-scale testing. Going forward, we will make our AI tools more industry-focused and service oriented. We will provide effective solutions for merchants across all operational decision-making scenarios and make consumers' decision-making process and consumption experience more intelligent, more convenient and more personalized.

Founded in 2010, Meituan has witnessed and led the digital transformation for China's local service industry. Since 2010, we have built the online purchase, offline consumption user mention in local services through group purchase model. And back in 2013, we stepped into the food delivery space and our intracity on-demand delivery network made food delivery services more accessible than ever, turning it into a key food consumption habit for Chinese consumers.

And as leading -- as industry competition keeps evolving, we are confident in maintaining our leading position by continuing to strengthen our core competitiveness. guided by our retail plus technology strategy. We will continue to refine our products and services to better meet consumers' very diverse local services needs while empowering merchants through technology innovation and AI application, altogether to drive the sustainable and healthy development of the whole industry.

So we are as ever committed to helping people eat better, live better. And with that, I will turn the call over to...

Shaohui Chen
CFO & Senior VP

Thank you, Xing. Hello, everyone. I will now go through our third quarter financial results. During this quarter, our total revenue increased by 2% year-over-year to RMB 95.5 billion. Cost of revenue ratio increased 12.9 percentage points year-over-year to 73.6%. This was primarily driven by: first, higher incentives for our couriers to maintain industry-leading delivery service quality and experience; second, the increased cost in our overseas operations.

These factors were partially offset by the improved gross margin of our grocery retail business. Selling and marketing expenses ratio increased 16.7 percentage points year-over-year to 35.9%, driven by our increased investments in promotion, advertising and user incentives to enhance our brand awareness, user acquisition and core user engagement. R&D expenses ratio slightly increased to 7.3% as a result of our increased investment in AI, while G&A expenses ratio maintaining stable year-over-year at 3.1%.

This quarter, irrational competition within the on-demand delivery industry significantly distorted sector-wide profitability. Our deliberate strategy investments to sustain leadership and competitiveness resulted in a total segment operating loss of RMB 15.3 billion and an adjusted net loss of RMB 16 billion. However, we maintained uncompromised service standards while continuing to drive initiatives that foster the industry's sustainable development.

As of September 30, 2025, we held cash and cash equivalents and short-term treasury investments totaling RMB 141.3 billion. However, cash generated from operating activities turned to negative RMB 22.1 billion, primarily due to our investments in response to the intensified competition.

Now turning first to our core local commerce segment. Revenue declined year-over-year this quarter, primarily driven by 2 factors. First, intensified competition caused a significant drop in food delivery average order value, weakening commission revenue growth. Second, delivery service revenue saw negative growth due to substantially higher incentives deducted from delivery service revenue. Despite these headwinds, we strategically increased investment across our ecosystem to reinforce market leadership and drive sustainable growth.

For consumers, we strengthened marketing efforts to enhance brand positioning and price competitiveness while boosting user engagement. For couriers, we expanded incentives to guarantee deliver service quality and experience. Besides, supporting merchant partners remains a priority for us. Having empowered over 360,000 restaurant merchants nationwide, we recently committed an additional RMB 2 billion in merchant support funds. We hope to enable more restaurant partners to achieve efficient and sustainable operations.

While these investments waived on the segment profitability in this quarter, they solidified our leadership in both food delivery and Meituan Instashopping. Our market position in core in-store categories also remained stable throughout this period. We sustained our role as consumers go-to platform for local services. Both order volume and GTV for core local commerce maintained healthy growth this quarter. Notably, on-demand delivery saw accelerating order growth. Core user base grew steadily year-over-year with more low-to-medium frequency users moving up to high frequency. These users are transacting more often, staying more engaged and exploring more consumption scenarios.

I mean the recent demand boost from the intensified industry competition, we secured the highest quality incremental orders. Moving forward, we will keep focusing on consumption frequency and engagement of core users through better supply and fulfillment capabilities. In-store business also sustained its strong growth momentum with continued outperformance in lower-tier markets.

Turning to our new initiatives segment. During this quarter, segment revenue grew by 15.9% year-over-year to RMB 28 billion this quarter. Despite the impact of strategic transformation of Meituan Select, our revenue remained solid growth driven by the expansion of our grocery retail business and overseas business. The segment's operating loss and operating loss ratio both narrowed on a quarter-over-quarter basis to RMB 1.3 billion and 4.6%, respectively. Thanks to our efforts in improving operating and marketing efficiency in our grocery retail business and other new initiatives.

The year-over-year increase in operating loss was mainly due to our increased investment in overseas business. As we look ahead, we remain confident in our ability to navigate a dynamic and competitive environment. We are making deliberate investments in technology, service quality and our ecosystem. These investments will strengthen our competitive position and unlock new growth opportunity for the industry over time. We have full confidence in our ability to deliver healthy, high-quality growth over the long run when competition normalize. With that, we are now open for Q&A.