MGM Resorts International (MGM) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 29, 2025 5:00 PM EDT

Company Participants

Howard Wang
William Hornbuckle - President, CEO & Director
Jonathan Halkyard - CFO & Treasurer
Xiaofeng Feng - President of Strategic, CFO & Executive Director
Corey Sanders - Chief Operating Officer

Conference Call Participants

John DeCree - CBRE Securities, LLC, Research Division
Shaun Kelley - BofA Securities, Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Daniel Politzer - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Steven Wieczynski - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Stephen Grambling - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Barry Jonas - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Chad Beynon - Macquarie Research

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and welcome to the MGM Resorts International Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call.

Joining the call from the company today are Mr. Bill Hornbuckle, Chief Executive Officer and President; Corey Sanders, Chief Operating Officer; Jonathan Halkyard, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; Gary Fritz, President of MGM Interactive; Kenneth Feng, Executive Director and President of MGM China Holdings Hubert Wang, COO and President of MGM China Holdings; and Howard Wang, Vice President, Investor Relations.

[Operator Instructions]

Please note, this call is being recorded. Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Howard Wang. Please go ahead.

Howard Wang

Thanks. Welcome to the MGM Resorts International Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. This call is being broadcast live on the Internet at investors.mgmresorts.com, and we've also furnished our press release on Form 8-K to the SEC.

On this call, we will make forward-looking statements under the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in these statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements is contained in today's press release and in our periodic filings with the SEC. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or otherwise.

During the call, we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our performance. You can find the reconciliation to GAAP financial measures in our press release and investor presentation, which are available on our website. Finally, this presentation is being recorded.

I will now turn it over to Bill Hornbuckle.

William Hornbuckle
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Howard, and good afternoon, everyone. Our industry is constantly changing, and MGM is always moving forward, proactively navigating with agility and allocating capital with discipline to best position our company for future success. One example of our capital discipline was a challenging decision to withdraw our application for commercial license in Yonkers, New York. We dedicated significant time and resource over the last several years to this project adjusted along the way with our best efforts to make the project work for all parties involved. We have been and continue to be a proud partner of the city of Yonkers and the State of New York. We remain committed to operating the property in its current format and believe it will continue to enjoy success serving customers in the Yonkers and surrounding communities.

Also, we have been consistent in our focus on premium best-in-class market-leading integrated resort operations and have held true to our message that we will optimize our portfolio when the right value opportunities are presented. This was the case for Northfield Park, which we are selling for $546 million in cash. You may recall, we acquired the operations in 2019 for $275 million. We have grown the business and create significant value over the last 6 years. And importantly, the sale of multiple of 6.6x represents a significant premium to MGM's current share price which values the opco business at less than 3x.

This company's diversity is also a true benefit, and then all the headlines or concerns about Las Vegas and the general consumer MGM's consolidated net revenues grew this quarter, thanks to the geographic and channel diversity of our business.

I've spoken in the past about the evolution of Las Vegas and that over the last 30 years, the market has grown at a CAGR of over 4%. Of course, that growth ebbs and flows over shorter measurements of time. And this summer, we heard from some of our guests around value in Las Vegas, and we responded by making adjustments to ensure a rationalized premium value experience across all of our properties.

We also partnered with the destination on a fabulous 5-day sale during which we sold over 300,000 room nights, nearly double our typical pace, reflecting the strong demand that exists for our experiences. There are additional factors presuming the current visitation dynamic, including international visitation, particularly from Canada, Southern California drive traffic and the recent Spirit Airlines bankruptcy, resulting in several canceled routes. We are still expecting to receive over 40 million visitors to Las Vegas in 2025.

While we don't expect the dynamic to be changed overnight, we are proactively working to create initiatives and draw incremental visitation. Despite these headwinds, several of our luxury properties generated record 3Q slot win. As we look to the fourth quarter, we see signs of stabilization as the luxury market segment continues exhibiting strength, Groups and conventions are returning and all MGM guest rooms will be upgraded and back online and F1 ticketing presales, particularly for the Bellagio Fountain Club are pacing higher versus the prior year. All of which puts us on a solid footing as we approach 2026.

Over 90% of our target groups and conventions are contracted for next year, and the first quarter starts off strong with Conag continuing into the year with other citywides. We also built off the 900,000 room nights we are facing the book through our Marriott partnership this year. And I'd note, October is shaping up to be the strongest room night month ever for forward bookings originating from the Marriott channel. We'll have a full year in 2026 to benefit from the group and convention initiatives launched in the second quarter this year that will allow us -- that will allow meeting planners and attendees to earn Marriott Bonvoy loyalty perks.

In the meantime, we continue maintaining an oversized share room nights and rate relative to our Las Vegas competition. As visitation ramps up in Las Vegas, we fully expect our advantage will be maximized by the outside efforts of our employees who achieved our highest-ever 3Q gold plus NPS scores despite continuing disruption from the MGM throughout the quarter, which, again, now has ended.

Our teams in the regional markets drove another quarter of solid results. Several regional properties achieved record 3Q total revenue and EBITDAR and the regional operations as a whole generated all-time record slot win this quarter. The targeted capital to create and elevate VIP experiences at Borgata but a notable role again as a casino GGR growth outpaced the market during the quarter, and the Borgata posted all-time high table games drop and slot win.

In Macau, even a brief closure caused by typhoon wasn't enough to stop the positive momentum as MGM China achieved record 3Q EBITDAR. Our contributions are leading Macau's evolution in the entertainment destination including the Macau 2049 Residency Show at MGM Cotai and the POLY MGM Museum at MGM Macau, all while staying focused on understanding our customers, particularly our focus on premium mass. The high end continues to drive market growth and quarter-to-date, we've seen a great response to the Alpha Gaming Club at MGM Macau, which officially opened in late September.

Similar to the elevated experience provided by MGM Cotai's Matching 1, MGG Macau's 3,500 square meter Alpha Gaming Club includes nearly 30 tables, dedicated restaurant, cigar lounge and located just below the newly designed alpha villas. With more nongaming and entertainment events taking place in Macau, customers now have more reasons to visit and continue to drive growth into the market.

The later 2 drove accelerated revenue growth for this segment, which in aggregate, grew top line by 23% this quarter and saw a priority market collectivity growing in line with TAM or higher. Our European BetMGM reached a new all-time revenue high in 3Q, with improved profitability driven by customers' growth and market share gains.

Even though the success has been offset by increased investment in Brazil, we are seeing quarter-over-quarter growth with healthy player fundamentals. Notably, growth has been driven around the key metrics of retention, which is exceeding even some of our healthy mature markets. We have a great relationship with our local media partner, Grupo Globo, and are taking a disciplined investment approach for long-term brand positioning and profitability. We expect that to gain market share and reduce our gross spend in the future and MGM Digital has an opportunity for $1 billion in revenue with a significant margin, driving double-digit returns on those investments.

Progress in Japan continues for 2030 opening, and we remain confident in our ability to generate a high-teens return at the time of opening, particularly as the only integrated resort in Japan, a country of over 120 million people. As of early this month, all elements of this project were under construction and at one time, there are 60 to 80 cranes and other pieces of heavy equipment on site. We also recently entered a USD 300 million equivalent yen-denominated credit facility at very attractive rates to support our funding commitment to MGM Osaka. And then Dubai also continues to make progress with an expected opening date in the second half of 2028.

With that, I will now hand it over to Jonathan to provide additional detail on our performance this quarter.

Jonathan Halkyard
CFO & Treasurer

Thanks, Bill. And I'd like to echo my appreciation to all of our employees throughout our operations globally for their hard work and dedication. The effort does not go unnoticed and truly is the driver behind everything MGM achieves.

This quarter, the Las Vegas segment reported $601 million in EBITDAR, down $130 million year-over-year. The bridge to that shortfall includes 3 main parts: there was $27 million in decreased business interruption proceeds together with an increase in insurance expense due to increased reserves; $25 million in disruption from the MGM Grand Room renovation; and $78 million from the impact on operations, primarily related to occupancy and ADRs.

Roughly half of that operations impact can be attributed to Luxor and Excalibur and $6 million more can be attributed to lower hold year-over-year. The balance is attributed to softer ADRs and a decrease in occupancy, which affected volumes in food and beverage in some of our properties. This operating environment has provided an opportunity for us to focus on our cost containment efforts, and we've been able to reduce certain costs alongside top line fluctuations.

Net revenue in Las Vegas declined 7%, but we managed expenses down accordingly where possible, including FTEs that also decreased by 7%. As we look into the fourth quarter, we're seeing improving room rates. We also have the benefit of all MGM Grand Rooms online and newly upgraded in time for the group and convention season. and we're seeing strong group demand in November and December, driving stabilization in our business.

As we look to next year, the 2026 group and convention channel has the ability to drive growth. Currently, future bookings are pacing up in all outer years, while attrition and cancellations are in line with historical averages. Regional operations had another steady quarter as we grew net revenues modestly. EBITDAR was down $4 million related to a decrease in business interruption proceeds of $6 million year-over-year.

Beyond that impact, the results were very solid. MGM China continued its impressive run with record third quarter EBITDAR despite an estimated $12 million typhoon-related impact in September. We also ended the quarter with a record market share of 15.5%. We continue to benefit from MGM China's strong cash flows with an $85 million dividend paid to MGM Resorts in September. As we look to fourth quarter in Macau, we experienced year-over-year growth across segments during the Golden Week holiday period with visitation up 11% and total win up 20%.

For the month of October, we're pacing to a 16.5% market share and well over $100 million in EBITDA. Our BetMGM North American venture reported outstanding results and also announced that prior to the end of the calendar year, it will begin distributing cash back to MGM Resorts with the expectation of doing so on a quarterly basis going forward. We expect to receive at least $100 million in the fourth quarter from our $630 million total investment with more to come. The business model is proving out as within just the last 12 months, we've witnessed the evolution from positive EBITDA inflection, then to solid growth trajectory, and now to a business generating ample cash capable of funding growth and cash distributions.

MGM Digital reported revenue growth of 23% during the quarter, while segment EBITDA was a loss of $23 million. For the full year, we now expect MGM Digital to have EBITDA losses that could approach $100 million, given our increased investment in Brazil. Though keep in mind, the actual contribution is consistent with our stake in the Brazil venture, which is roughly 50%. The venture has seen encouraging growth quarter-over-quarter throughout the year in active players, deposits and GGR. In our fourth quarter initiatives, including launching our in-house Sportsbook and continuing to increase the scale of the business, focusing on efficient returns.

In Japan, construction continues making progress. We've recently raised a yen denominated Term Loan A at the MGM Resorts level equivalent to USD 300 million at a borrowing cost of approximately 2.5% as of this month. This facility also has the ability to upsize to $450 million and we're already receiving incremental interest. We'll use the proceeds from this issuance to cover our equity contributions for MGM Osaka at least through next summer.

Finally, we continue to see significant value in our share price. In this quarter, we were able to provide yet another transaction precedent to further evidence the attractive valuation, when you strip out the value of MGM China at market value and assign a consensus value to the BetMGM North America venture, which we still view as very conservative given the current trajectory, you end up with an implied multiple of under 3x trailing 12-month asset EBITDA to say nothing of the value of MGM Digital, a business that's capable of $1 billion in run rate top line with double-digit EBITDA margins and this compares to the 6.6x announced sale multiple for Northfield Park's operations in Ohio, which, if applied across the board to our brick-and-mortar business, inclusive of Vegas, which arguably deserves a higher multiple than the regionals that would imply a share price of approximately $60.

I'll open it back to Bill.

William Hornbuckle
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Jonathan. Fairly, I thumbed over a page, which I would like to spend a second on commenting about our digital business. before we take your questions. I know a few weeks ago, you all heard BetMGM's venture reported strong 3 quarter results and raised our full year guidance for the second time this year, increased 2025 EBITDA guidance to approximately $200 million represents an EBITDA increase of roughly $450 million in just 1 year without any new jurisdictions. Importantly, BetMGM will start returning capital to MGM Resorts with an expected initial cash distribution of at least $100 million in the fourth quarter.

I also want to follow up on BetMGM's recent comments about prediction markets. For decades, the gaming industry has been a highly regulated at state level. This intense scrutiny has been essential to ensuring the integrity of the gaming industry and in the case of sports betting, helped to identify potentially irregular activity. This is not the time to back away from these high standards. Gaming historically has been and should continue to be a highly regulated industry with safeguards in place to protect consumers and promote integrity.

I also want to take a moment and thank our Chief Operating Officer, Corey Sanders, who will be retiring at the end of the year, making this his last earnings call. I'm sure many of you on this call spoke to Corey frequently throughout his tenure. It's impossible to overstate what Corey has meant to this company over the last 30-plus years. As a person, as a leader, Corey understands the importance of caring for employees and treating people with respect. We all want to thank you, Corey, for your dedication, your service and your leadership and let you know that you will be deeply missed.

In closing, I want to stress that MGM is the only global operator across physical and digital channels, converging gaming and hospitality with entertainment and sports delivering diversified growth at scale. We have proven to be disciplined allocators of capital, and we'll look at any opportunities with attractive returns, including share buybacks.

And in Las Vegas, it's worth repeating, we are focused on what we can control and are well positioned to adapt given the range and diversity of our luxury offerings. We stabilized -- we see stabilization in the fourth quarter and growth in 2026 and beyond. And over the long run, we see a measured supply outlook, a growing local population, expanding entertainment infrastructure, rising demand for live entertainment and for luxury, and we remain very bullish on Las Vegas.

And now operator, if we could open it up for questions. Thank you.