Melco Resorts & Entertainment Limited (MLCO) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Jeanny Kim - Senior VP & Group Treasurer
Yau Ho - Founder, Chairman & CEO
Geoffrey Davis - Executive VP & CFO
Evan Winkler - President & Director

Conference Call Participants

George Choi - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Luis Chinchilla - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
John DeCree - CBRE Securities, LLC, Research Division
Joseph Stauff - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Praveen Choudhary - Morgan Stanley, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in the Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call of Melco Resorts & Entertainment Limited. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Jeanny Kim, Senior Vice President, Group Treasurer of Melco Resorts & Entertainment Limited. Please go ahead.

Jeanny Kim
Senior VP & Group Treasurer

Thank you, operator, and thank you all for joining us today for our third quarter 2025 earnings call. On the call are Lawrence Ho, Geoff Davis, Evan Winkler; and our Property Presidents in Macau, Manila and Cyprus. Before we get started, please note that today's discussion may contain forward-looking statements made under the safe harbor provision of federal securities laws.

Our actual results could differ from our anticipated results. In addition, we may discuss non-GAAP measures. A definition and reconciliation of each of these measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the earnings release. Finally, please note that our supplementary earnings slides are posted on our Investor Relations website.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Mr. Lawrence Ho.

Yau Ho
Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Jeanny, and thank you all for joining us today. Our properties in Macau delivered solid growth in the third quarter of 2025, with property EBITDA growing by 21% year-over-year despite the negative impact of approximately $12 million due to the typhoon in September.

Our momentum in Macau is continuing, and we did not see a slowdown in October following the holidays. In fact, our Macau GGR grew over 30% year-over-year post Golden Week, and COD recorded its highest monthly mass tables GGR ever in October. We continue to introduce new initiatives to enhance the quality of engagement with our customers across all segments of our customer base.

In July, we opened the Signature Clubhouse at City of Dreams for our premium mass customers, which includes private gaming salons, hair services, a Formula One simulator and other exclusive amenities to provide a differentiated experience.

In September, we reopened a gaming area featuring 15 gaming tables at City of Dreams near the Grand Hyatt across from MGM Cotai and Wynn Palace and just steps away from the Macau Light Rail Station. This new area has been designed to appeal to walk-in crowd with lower table minimums, and we have seen this area well utilized with a steady flow of new patrons. As we had announced previously, we closed Grand Dragon Casino and one of our Mochas in September.

The 15 tables from Grand Dragon were allocated to the new gaming space at COD and 90 gaming machines from the Mocha closure were shifted to Studio City. We will close 2 more Mochas before end of the year, and the gaming machines will be reallocated across our 3 properties in Macau. We have started the renovation of the Countdown Hotel, which we currently expect to open in the third quarter of 2026.

After completion, this hotel will bring a one-of-a-kind experience to Macau and the region. We plan to simultaneously upgrade retail and food and beverage in this precinct of COD and continue to elevate the quality of our product offerings. At Studio City, we unveiled a newly expanded high-limit gaming area along with 4 new private gaming salons at Epic Tower to provide an even more refined experience for our premium mass customers.

In October, we relaunched the new iRAD hospital at Studio City, designed to further enhance Macau's tourism infrastructure with top-tier health care and wellness services. In the Philippines, property EBITDA grew 45% quarter-over-quarter, and we have seen good momentum in October. City of Dreams Mediterranean and the satellite casinos in Cyprus had their best quarter yet, with property EBITDA growing 53% year-over-year to $23 million.

Despite the escalation of hostilities in the region at the beginning of the quarter, we're now in the shoulder season, but the property is coming into its own and showing solid year-over-year growth so far. In Sri Lanka, we opened City of Dreams Sri Lanka on August 1 as the first integrated resort in Sri Lanka and in South Asia. It is early days as we solidify our footing and continue to ramp up our operations there.

With that, I turn the call over to Geoff.

Geoffrey Davis
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Lawrence. Our group-wide adjusted property EBITDA for the third quarter of 2025 grew 18% year-over-year to approximately $380 million. Adjusted for VIP hold, our property EBITDA was approximately $355 million. Favorable win rates at COD Macau and COD Manila had positive impacts on our property EBITDA by approximately $23 million and $2 million, respectively.

We continue to remain focused on operational discipline and our OpEx in Macau remained stable this quarter at approximately $3 million per day, excluding House of Dancing Water and the Residency concerts. OpEx for House of Dancing Water was approximately $100,000 per day, as previously mentioned. Our Macau property EBITDA margin held steady at approximately 29% in the third quarter of 2025, which reflects our disciplined approach on costs as we drive sustained business growth.

Turning to our balance sheet. Our liquidity position remains robust. We had available liquidity of $2.6 billion with consolidated cash on hand of approximately $1.6 billion as of the end of the third quarter of 2025. Melco, excluding its operations at Studio City, the Philippines, Cyprus and Sri Lanka, accounted for approximately $1.05 billion of the consolidated cash on hand.

There was a quarter-over-quarter increase in Melco's cash balance of approximately $360 million, which was largely due to the timing of the $500 million in bonds that we issued in September. As of the end of September, we had approximately $358 million of the bond proceeds remaining, net of $142 million, which had been used to settle a tender offer on the senior notes due 2026.

In October, the remaining proceeds of the new bond were utilized to early redeem all of the outstanding senior notes due 2026, which had not been tendered. Following this exercise, the group does not have any material amount of debt maturing in 2026. We continue to reduce debt in the third quarter with a total of $180 million being repaid, $70 million at Melco and $110 million at Studio City.

We repaid a further $180 million at Melco in October and November. In October, we also canceled $18.5 million of the approximately 32 million ADSs that were repurchased earlier this year at an average price of $5.10 per ADS. As we normally do, we'll give you some guidance on nonoperating line items for the upcoming fourth quarter of 2025. Total depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be approximately $135 million to $140 million.

Corporate expense is expected to come in at approximately $25 million to $30 million and consolidated net interest expense is expected to be approximately $115 million to $120 million. This includes finance liability interest of around $6 million relating to fees payable in relation to the Macau gaming concession and the Cyprus gaming license and finance lease interest of approximately $5 million relating to City of Dreams Manila.

That concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, back to you for the Q&A.