Altria Group, Inc. (MO) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Mac Livingston - Vice President of Investor Relations
William Gifford - CEO & Director
Salvatore Mancuso - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Matthew Smith - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Bonnie Herzog - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Eric Serotta - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Mirza Faham Baig - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Pallav Mittal - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Damian McNeela - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Altria Group 2025 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is scheduled to last about one hour, including remarks by Altria's management and a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mac Livingston, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Mac Livingston
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, Chloe. Good morning, and thank you for joining us.

This morning, Billy Gifford, Altria's CEO; and Sal Mancuso, our CFO, will discuss Altria's 2025 fourth quarter and full year business results.

Earlier today, we issued a press release providing our results. The release, presentation, quarterly metrics and our latest corporate responsibility reports are all available at altria.com. During our call today, unless otherwise stated, we're comparing results to the same period in 2024.

Our remarks contain forward-looking statements, including projections of future results. Please review the forward-looking and cautionary statements section at the end of today's earnings release for various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections. Future dividend payments and share repurchases remain subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors.

We report our financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Today's call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis. Adjusted results exclude special items that affect comparisons with reported results. Descriptions of these non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in today's earnings release and on our website at altria.com.

Finally, all references in today's remarks to nicotine consumers or consumers within a specific nicotine category or segment refer to existing adult nicotine consumers 21 years of age or older.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Billy.

William Gifford
CEO & Director

Thanks, Mac. Good morning, and thank you for joining us.

2025 was a year of continued momentum for Altria marked by strong financial performance, strategic progress across our smoke-free portfolio, new relationships in support of our long-term growth goals, and significant cash returns to shareholders. Our leading brands and talented teams enabled our core tobacco businesses to deliver solid income growth and margin expansion while we invested in our vision.

For the full year, we grew adjusted diluted earnings per share by 4.4% and returned $8 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases combined. As the year progressed, we achieved meaningful milestones that we believe advance our smoke-free portfolio and position us for sustained success in the U.S. nicotine space and for long-term adjacent growth.

In 2025, Helix received marketing granted orders from the FDA for certain on! PLUS products. Horizon submitted a combined PMTA and MRTPA to the FDA for Ploom and Marlboro heated tobacco sticks. We entered into a strategic collaboration with KT&G to advance international modern oral, U.S. non-nicotine growth and traditional tobacco operating efficiencies. And we continue to advocate for a responsible and well-regulated marketplace.

My remarks this morning will focus on our latest view of the U.S. nicotine space, our smoke-free progress and our earnings guidance for 2026. I'll then hand it over to Sal, who will provide further details on our business and financial results. Let's begin with our view of the U.S. nicotine space.

Over the past year, the estimated number of adult consumers in the e-vapor and oral tobacco categories, grew to almost 30 million, nearly as large as the adult smoker population and a reflection of the potential for tobacco harm reduction in the U.S. Total nicotine industry equivalized volumes increased for the third consecutive year and grew by approximately 2% over the past 5 years on a compounded annual basis. And we estimate that smoke-free alternatives represented more than 50% of the total nicotine space, up 5 percentage points from the prior year.

However, the primary driver of industry and smoke-free growth continues to be the widespread availability of illicit flavored disposable e-vapor products evading the regulatory process, which jeopardizes the long-term tobacco harm reduction opportunity.

We estimate the e-vapor category grew approximately 15% in 2025 with illicit products representing approximately 70% of the category. At year-end, we estimate there were more than 20 million vapors with nearly 15 million using disposable products. We have long advocated for stronger enforcement against illicit products and an acceleration of FDA market authorization for smoke-free products. In 2025, we saw increased engagement and action from federal agencies and government officials, including fourth quarter legislation requiring the FDA to allocate at least $200 million of tobacco user fees to enforcement activities.

Early signs suggest that these efforts, together with tariffs of Chinese manufactured goods, are beginning to impact the illicit marketplace. We are also seeing early indication that growth in the total number of disposable vapors is moderating. In 2025, disposable e-vapor volumes grew approximately 30% compared to over 50% in 2024. Growth in the number of disposable vapors also slowed, rising approximately 10% in 2025 versus over 40% in 2024.

Additionally, the FDA's pilot program to streamline PMTA reviews for certain oral nicotine pouches could be a meaningful step toward improved regulatory speed and clarity required to deliver products that meet adult consumer preferences and regulatory standards. While we are encouraged by this early progress, additional action is needed to accelerate product authorization decisions and ensure a level playing field for all manufacturers. We are hopeful that 2026 will bring consistent enforcement and further improvements to the regulatory process.

We continue to believe that responsible participation in the e-vapor category with products that meet consumer preferences supports our vision and our broader smoke-free strategy. We're making progress against our product pipeline and are executing with discipline and intention. The proliferation of illicit disposable products, pace of FDA authorizations and the intellectual property landscape remain significant headwinds. Accordingly, we intend to maintain a measured approach to our investments in e-vapor until the regulatory framework is functioning as intended, and enforcement actions meaningfully address the illicit market.

Let's now turn to the nicotine pouch category. Nicotine pouches continue to drive overall oral tobacco volume growth, which increased an estimated 14% over the past 6 months. In the fourth quarter, oral nicotine pouches grew 10.4 share points versus the prior year and now represent nearly 57% of the total oral category. Competitor promotional activity remained elevated during the fourth quarter. Average retail prices for category competitors in the fourth quarter declined 3% sequentially and 12% year-over-year. In contrast, Helix remained focused on balancing profitability with retaining loyal on! consumers. At retail, on!'s price increased by approximately 4% sequentially and 3% versus the prior year.

For the full year, Helix successfully delivered against its plans and contributed profitable growth to our oral tobacco products segment. In this environment, Helix was relatively stable in the fourth quarter, growing on! reported shipment volume to more than 44 million cans. For the full year, Helix grew on! reported shipment volume by approximately 11% to more than 177 million cans. on!'s retail share of the total oral tobacco category was 7.7% for the fourth quarter and 8.2% for the full year.

While Helix carefully stewarded on! through disruptive second half market conditions, the team also prepared to bring on! PLUS to the market. In December, the FDA authorized on! PLUS MINT, Wintergreen and Tobacco in 6 and 9-milligram nicotine strengths with the 12-milligram variant still in the review process. Following authorization, Helix resumed shipments of on! PLUS in Florida, North Carolina and Texas.

Innovation in pouch formats, including wet pouches, broader flavor variety and higher nicotine strength offerings is driving nicotine pouch growth. We believe on! PLUS is a premium differentiated product that is well positioned to meaningfully participate in this growth. Early consumer feedback indicates that its innovative pouch material with smooth flavor proposition is a competitive advantage in the marketplace. In recent research, on! PLUS MINT achieved higher overall purchase intention scores than the leading nicotine pouch brand and distinguished itself with superior pouch comfort and mouth feel, critical attributes in the nicotine pouch category.

In the fourth quarter, Helix began laying the foundation to expand on! PLUS nationally. Our teams made strategic investments in retail merchandising fixtures and equity to prepare for the on! PLUS national launch planned for the first half of this year. In 2026, Helix plans to focus on generating trial for on! PLUS and retaining adopters for on! classic. We anticipate Helix will continue to be profitable for the full year 2026.

Looking to the future. Helix strategy remains focused on innovation, and responsibly delivering on consumer preferences. In November, Helix submitted PMTA applications for on! PLUS products in 6 additional flavor varieties across 3 nicotine strengths. Helix looks forward to bringing these new products to the U.S. market.

Turning to our international smokefree efforts, we continue to focus on the fast-growing nicotine pouch category. In 2025, on!, on! PLUS and our newly added FUMi brand competed across select international markets through e-commerce and targeted retail distribution. FUMi appeals to the 80% of consumers interested in slim, [rough] pouch products. Early performance has been encouraging, supporting our expansion to 40,000 retail locations in 7 markets. In addition, we added 3 new line extensions bringing the brand to 12 unique flavor offerings.

Our broadened nicotine pouch portfolio has accelerated international expansion and is generating valuable consumer insights that will inform future product development. While these are early days, we believe our expanded international portfolio and the momentum from our efforts in 2025, put us on a path towards accomplishing our long-term international smoke-free growth goals.

Moving to our 2026 financial outlook. We expect to deliver 2026 full year adjusted diluted EPS in a range of $5.56 and to $5.72. This range represents a growth rate of 2.5% to 5.5% from a $5.42 base in 2025. We expect growth to be weighted to the second half of the year, reflecting a progressive increase in cigarette import and export activity over the course of the year. Our guidance contemplates planned investments to support our contract manufacturing capabilities, limited impact on combustible and e-vapor product volumes from illicit enforcement efforts, and NJOY ACE not returning to the marketplace in 2026.

We remain committed to our ambition and to building a portfolio of FDA-authorized smoke-free products for adult smokers and nicotine consumers who use smoke-free products. Our planned investment areas include marketplace activities in support of our smoke-free products and continued smoke-free product research, development and regulatory preparations.

In summary, Altria continued to build momentum in 2025. Our core businesses remain resilient. We advanced our smoke-free portfolio and we opened new pathways for long-term growth in international modern oral and non -- and U.S. non-nicotine innovation. These efforts support our vision and enterprise goals. I am confident in our strategy, energized by the opportunities ahead and grateful for our employees' commitment to delivering long-term shareholder value.

I'll now turn it over to Sal to provide additional details on our business and financial results.

Salvatore Mancuso
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Billy. Our core tobacco businesses delivered solid financial performance again this year in a dynamic external environment. The Smokeable Products segment delivered over $11 billion in adjusted OCI for the full year and expanded adjusted OCI margins by 1.8 percentage points to 63.4%. This performance was supported by robust net price realization of 8.4%. For the fourth quarter, adjusted OCI declined by 2.4% and adjusted OCI margins contracted by 0.8 percentage points to 60.4%.

Year-over-year cost per pack comparisons were impacted by higher manufacturing costs driven by investments to build PM USA cigarette import and export capabilities. Smokable Products segment, domestic cigarette volumes declined by 7.9% in the fourth quarter and 10% for the full year. When adjusted for calendar differences and trade inventory movements, domestic cigarette volumes declined by 7% in the fourth quarter and 9.5% for the full year.

At the industry level, when adjusted for trade inventory movements, calendar differences and other factors, we estimate domestic cigarette volumes declined by 8% for the full year and by 6.5% for the fourth quarter, representing a sequential improvement of approximately 1.5 percentage points. As Billy described, illicit flavored disposable e-vapor growth moderated slightly in 2025 compared to the prior year. We have closely monitored this trend and its impact on cigarette industry decline rates.

Based on our latest data, we are updating our cigarette category decomposition. We now estimate that cross-category impacts primarily driven by illicit flavored disposable e-vapor contributed approximately 2% to 3% to the cigarette industry decline over the past 12 months versus our prior estimate of 3% to 4%. In the discount segment, persistent discretionary income pressures remain the primary driver of growth. We also believe that the discount cigarette segment was most affected by the change in cross-category impact.

For the fourth quarter and full year, discount retail share grew by 2.6 share points and 2.2 share points, respectively. Continued discount segment growth pressured Marlboro's retail share, which declined 1.5 share points in the fourth quarter and 1.2 share points for the full year. In the premium segment, competitive dynamics during the fourth quarter contributed to Marlboro's share premium decreasing 0.1 share points to 59.2%.

For the full year, Marlboro remained the undisputed leader in the highly profitable premium segment, growing its share to 59.4%, up 0.1 share point versus the prior year. Basic continued to capture share in the discount segment, reflecting PM USA's data-driven total portfolio approach to meeting a broad set of consumer needs. In the fourth quarter, Basic retail share grew by 0.6 share points sequentially and 1.9 share points year-over-year. Basic strong performance demonstrates PM USA's ability to deploy advanced RGM capabilities to effectively compete in the most price-sensitive stores, while minimizing incremental impact to Marlboro.

In cigars, Middleton continued to outperform in the large mass cigar industry. For the fourth quarter and full year, Middleton reported shipment volume increase 4.2% and 1.8%, respectively.

Let's turn now to the oral tobacco products segment. Strategic investments behind on! and on! PLUS contributed to a 4.6% decline in adjusted OCI for the fourth quarter. Over the same period, segment adjusted OCI margins contracted by 5 percentage points to 64.5%. For the full year, adjusted OCI increased by 1.3% and adjusted OCI margins expanded modestly by 0.1 percentage points to 67.9%.

Total segment reported shipment volume decreased 6.3% for the fourth quarter and 5.5% for the full year as growth in on! was more than offset by lower MST volumes. When adjusted for trade inventory movements and calendar differences, we estimate that fourth quarter and full year oral tobacco products segment volumes declined by 6% and 4.5%, respectively. Oral Tobacco Products segment retail share was 29.6% for the fourth quarter and 31.9% for the full year.

Let's turn to an update on our e-vapor reporting unit. As Billy mentioned, while enforcement activity has increased, efforts thus far have not meaningfully reduced illicit e-vapor volumes to date. We now believe that effective sustained enforcement will develop over time at a more gradual pace. Given this dynamic, we performed impairment assessments of the e-vapor definite-lived intangible assets and goodwill in the fourth quarter. Based on these assessments, we recorded noncash impairment charges of $1.3 billion. We continue to believe we gain valuable assets and capabilities in the NJOY acquisition that can be applied to a future e-vapor pipeline to meet consumer preferences over the long term.

Before moving on from e-vapor, I'd like to point out a reporting change you will see in our 2025 financials. In accordance with accounting standards, we updated our reportable segments for the full year 2025, to also include the e-vapor products segment, which consists of our NJOY business.

Turning to ABI's financial results. we recorded $161 million of adjusted equity earnings in the fourth quarter, up 1.3% versus the prior year. We continue to view the ABI stake as a financial investment, and our goal remains to maximize the long-term value of the investment for our shareholders.

Before I conclude, I'd like to highlight that as we continue to invest for the long-term success of the business, we are, at the same time, returning significant value to shareholders. In 2025, we paid $7 billion in dividends, and our Board raised our dividend by 3.9% in August, marking our 60th increase in the last 56 years. We also repurchased more than 17 million shares for $1 billion under our $2 billion share repurchase program. At the end of the fourth quarter, we had $1 billion remaining under the current program, which expires at the end of 2026.

We effectively balanced our capital allocation priorities during the year and our balance sheet remains strong. Our total debt-to-EBITDA ratio as of December 31 was 2x, in line with our target.

With that, we'll wrap up and Billy and I will be happy to take your questions. While the calls are being compiled, I'll remind you that today's earnings release and our non-GAAP reconciliations are available on altria.com. We've also posted our usual quarterly metrics, which include pricing, inventory and other items. Operator, let's open the question-and-answer period.

