Moderna, Inc. (MRNA) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Lavina Talukdar - Senior VP & Head of Investor Relations
Stéphane Bancel - CEO & Director
James Mock - Chief Financial Officer
Stephen Hoge - President

Conference Call Participants

Salveen Richter - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Huidong Wang - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Cory Kasimov - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Luca Issi - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Gregory Wiessner - TD Cowen, Research Division
Geoffrey Meacham
Courtney Breen - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
John Boyle - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Moderna's Third Quarter 2025 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Lavina Talukdar. Please go ahead.

Lavina Talukdar
Senior VP & Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, Kevin. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on today's call to discuss Moderna's third quarter 2025 and financial results and business updates. You can access the press release issued this morning as well as the slides that we will be reviewing by going to the Investors section of our website. On today's call are Stéphane Bancel, our Chief Executive Officer; Stephen Hoge, our President; and Jamey Mock, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, please note that this conference call will include forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please see Slide 2 of the accompanying presentation and our SEC filings for important risk factors that could cause our actual performance and results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.

With that, I will turn the call over to Stéphane.

Stéphane Bancel
CEO & Director

Thank you, Lavina. Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I will start with a quick review of the quarter, Jamey will present our financial results and outlook, Stephen will review our commercial progress and clinical programs, and then I will share our key value drivers as we look ahead before we take your questions.

In the third quarter, our revenue were $1 billion, driven by sales of our fully approved vaccines, Spikevax, mNEXSPIKE, mRESVIA. The net loss for the quarter was $200 million. We ended the quarter with $6.6 billion in cash and investments. We remain highly focused on financial discipline. I'm pleased to announce that continued cost reduction efforts across the company in the third quarter of 2025 led to a 34% reduction of cost of sales, R&D and SG&A combined compared to the third quarter of 2024.

During the quarter, we made good progress across our 3 strategic priorities. Our first priority is driving use of our commercial products. For Spikevax, our original COVID vaccine, we received approval in 40 countries for the seasonal 2025-2026 train update. And mNEXSPIKE, our new COVID vaccine was approved this year by the FDA. We also filed and received approval for the 2025-2026 strand update in the U.S. making this the first season that mNEXSPIKE is available in the United States. We also received approval for mNEXSPIKE in Canada.

For RSV vaccine, mRESVIA, will continue to gain regulatory approval and mRESVIA is now approved in 40 countries. We have a strategic partnership with 3 countries, Canada, the U.K. and Australia, where we have established manufacturing facilities and secured a multiyear offtake agreements. In each of these countries, we have achieved important milestones. In Canada, we delivered the first made-in-Canada mRNA vaccines to the Canadian government for use this season.

In the U.K. and Australia, our facilities were granted licenses by their respective regulatory agencies. Second priority, advancing our pipeline to grab sales growth. We announced in July, positive Phase III flu efficacy data which we believe will advance both our flu vaccine program, mRNA-1010 and our flu plus COVID combination program, mRNA-1083. For the flu plus COVID combination program, our filing continues to be under review by the European Medicines Agency.

In Oncology portfolio at the European Society of Medical Oncology, ESMO, Congress in October, we presented encouraging Phase Ib data for cancer antigen therapy, mRNA-4359. Unfortunately, we also announced recently that despite the progress made by the scientific community in understanding the CMV virus, our CMV program did not meet its primary efficacy endpoints for congenital CMV. We will discontinue the development of our CMV vaccine in this indication.

Third priority, executing with financial discipline. The team continues to diligently advance our cost improvement program. Over the last 4 quarters, Q4 2024 to Q3 2025, we delivered a $2.1 billion improvement in costs across cost of goods, SG&A and R&D versus the prior 4 quarters. I want to thank the entire Moderna team for this great achievement, and we continue to work on prioritizing our R&D pipeline, driving productivity, including by the use of more digital tools, including a large number of GPTs, but also better pricing with our suppliers across the entire company.

Thanks to this good progress and momentum, we've reduced projected 2025 cash cost by approximately $500 million since just the last quarter investor call in August 2025 and by approximately $900 million since the beginning of the year.

With this, I will hand over to Jamey.

James Mock
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Stephane, and hello, everyone. Today, I will provide an overview of our financial results for the third quarter and share our outlook for the remainder of 2025. Let's start by reviewing our commercial performance, which you can follow on Slide 7. Year-to-date, total revenue was approximately $1.3 billion with $900 million from the U.S. and the remainder from international markets. In addition to product sales, revenue also includes collaboration, grant and stand-ready revenue associated with our strategic partnerships.

For the third quarter of 2025, our total revenue was $1 billion. U.S. revenue was $800 million in the third quarter, the vast majority of which was from our COVID vaccines, which included the successful launch of our new COVID vaccine, mNEXSPIKE. Stephen will give more detail on the U.S. COVID vaccination season in a moment. Revenue outside the U.S. was $200 million. Approximately half of international revenue in Q3 was delivered to Canada where we began executing on our strategic partnership through our in-country manufacturing facility.

As a reminder, we have similar strategic partnerships with the Australian and U.K. governments and expect to begin shipping locally manufactured product in 4Q '25 and 1Q '26, respectively. For the full year 2025 outlook, we are narrowing our revenue range to $1.6 billion to $2 billion from our previous guidance of $1.5 billion to $2.2 billion. For the U.S. market, we expect fourth quarter sales of $100 million to $400 million. This would bring our updated full year U.S. revenue guidance to $1 billion to $1.3 billion versus our prior guidance of $1 billion to $1.5 billion.

Our original guidance assumed year-over-year revenue to be flat to down 33%, excluding onetime items. Our updated guidance now assumes a year-over-year decline of 15% to 33%. COVID vaccination rates remain the largest variable to this range, which Stephen will walk through in a moment. For international markets, we now expect revenue to be between $300 million and $400 million in the fourth quarter, bringing the full year to $600 million to $700 million versus our previous guidance of $500 million to $700 million.

We have a tighter range on our international sales as most of these sales are for contracted volumes leaving delivery timing and file vaccination rates as the only remaining variables.

Moving to Slide 8, I will review our 3Q financial results in more detail. Total revenue was $1 billion in the quarter, as I just discussed on the prior page. We had net product sales of $973 million and other revenue of $43 million from grants, collaborations, royalties and stand-ready fees. The 45% year-over-year decline in revenue was expected and primarily reflects lower COVID vaccine demand.

It's also worth noting that last year's third quarter included approximately $140 million from a true-up adjustment to prior period sales provisions. That benefit did not repeat in Q3 this year. Cost of sales for the third quarter was $207 million, representing 21% net product sales for the quarter. This was a 60% year-over-year decrease in our cost of sales from $514 million in Q3 last year. The improvement was driven by lower inventory write-downs, reduced unutilized manufacturing capacity and lower volume.

Overall, these results reflect the productivity gains and the efficiency improvements we've achieved in our manufacturing operations. R&D expenses in the third quarter were $801 million, a 30% decrease from last year. The reduction mainly reflects lower clinical trial costs as we completed several large Phase III studies in our vaccine portfolio as well as efficiency gains across the organization. Last year's results also included an expense related to the purchase of a priority review voucher. SG&A expenses were $268 million in the third quarter, a 5% decrease year-over-year. The decline mainly reflects lower consulting and external service costs across multiple functions, along with reduced digital and facility spending.

These savings reflect the cost discipline we've built into the organization and our continued focus on streamlining how we operate. Our income tax provision for the quarter was immaterial, consistent with the prior year. We continue to maintain a global valuation allowance against the majority of our deferred tax assets, which limits our ability to recognize tax benefits from losses. Net loss for the quarter was $200 million compared to net income of $13 million in Q3 2024. Loss per share was $0.51 compared to earnings per share of $0.03 last year. We ended Q3 with cash and investments of $6.6 billion, down from $7.5 billion at the end of Q2. The decrease was primarily driven by seasonal impact to working capital.

With that, let me take a minute to share the progress we've made on our cost reduction goals. As a reminder, our original target this year was to reduce our GAAP operating expenses from $7.2 billion in 2024 to $6.4 billion in 2025. On a cash cost basis, excluding stock-based compensation, depreciation and other noncash charges, that represented a decrease from $6.3 billion in 2024 to $5.5 billion. I'm happy to report that we are now on track to beat our 2025 cost plan by over $1 billion on a GAAP basis and by $900 million on a cash cost basis, both at the midpoint of our projections.

During our previous 2Q call, we have lowered our GAAP and cash cost by $400 million each, with GAAP costs lowered from $6.4 billion to $6 billion, and cash costs lowered from $5.5 billion to $5.1 billion. Today, we are further lowering our 2025 expense guidance due to additional progress across the company to drive efficiency gains and continued investment prioritization. Our GAAP operating expense guidance is being reduced by another $700 million from $6 billion to $5.3 billion at the midpoint. This reduction is $500 million of cash costs, plus $200 million of noncash reductions in stock-based compensation and depreciation.

The $700 million GAAP reduction from prior guidance is split evenly between cost of sales and R&D. We are lowering our cost of sales forecast by $300 million to $400 million from $1.2 billion to a range of $0.8 billion to $0.9 billion, which reflects an acceleration of the efficiency programs we are targeting as part of our multiyear cost-out plan. We are also lowering our R&D expense range to $3.3 billion to $3.4 billion and approximately $350 million improvement due to continued investment prioritization and efficiency gains in the execution of our clinical trials.

In just 2 years, we expect to reduce our cash cost by approximately 50% from nearly $9 billion in 2023 to $4.6 billion in 2025. We are now ahead of our plans, and we'll update improvements to our 2026 and 2027 targets at our upcoming Analyst Day on November 20. Importantly, we continue to target cash breakeven in 2028. I would like to take this moment to thank all my Moderna colleagues for their hard work and commitment to improve the financial profile of our company.

Moving to Slide 10. I will share our updated 2025 financial framework. For total revenue, as I mentioned in my earlier remarks, we are narrowing our range to $1.6 billion to $2 billion from our previous guidance of $1.5 billion to $2.2 billion. For cost of sales, our updated guidance is $0.8 billion to $0.9 billion, an improvement from our previous guidance of $1.2 billion. This updated range assumes a higher cost of sales in 4Q versus 3Q, which factors in similar sales volume and higher unutilized manufacturing charges.

Newly introduced tariffs are not expected to have a material impact on our business, but we continue to monitor changes to global tariffs. Our revised R&D range of $3.3 billion to $3.4 billion projects an increase in 4Q spend due to the seasonality of vaccine trial spend as well as studies in support of regulatory approvals. SG&A expenses are expected to be $1.1 billion. Similar to last year, we expect SG&A expenses in the fourth quarter to increase primarily due to commercial related activity.

We expect taxes to be negligible in 2025. We expect our capital expenditures are also supposed to be approximately $300 million. We are increasing our year-end cash guidance to $6.5 billion to $7 billion, an increase of $0.5 billion to $1 billion from our prior guidance of approximately $6 billion. This increase is projected to increase year-end cash due to the reduction in our operating expense for the year.

In summary, we have made strong financial progress against our 2025 financial objectives. We have tightened our sales range because of increased visibility into our seasonal sales. And we have lowered our 2025 cash cost estimate by $900 million from $5.5 billion to $4.6 billion, resulting in a higher projected year-end cash balance of $6.5 billion to $7 billion.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Stephen.

Stephen Hoge
President

Thank you, Jamey, and good morning or good afternoon, everyone. Today, I'll review our current commercial positioning in the U.S. as well as our progress across our pipeline. As you know, COVID vaccine sales still represent the vast majority of our revenues. And as Jamey pointed out earlier, the U.S. is our largest market in 2025.

Slide 12 reviews the U.S. COVID vaccination market during the fall of '24 and the cumulative vaccinations to date for the retail channel for the fall of '25 as reported by IQVIA. As a reminder, the retail channel represented 72% of the total vaccinations in the fall of 2024. We expect this segment will represent a similar proportion of the market in 2025.

As Jamey noted earlier, our U.S. revenue guidance is $1.0 billion to $1.3 billion. This range is based on our preseason expectation for a 20% to 40% decline from fall 2024 retail vaccinations of approximately $26 million. As of October 24 of this year, cumulative retail vaccinations were $13.2 million, down approximately 30% year-over-year and well within the 20% to 40% decline we had assumed in our 2025 U.S. revenue outlook.

Moving to Slide 13. Our COVID retail market share is 42%, up 2 percentage points from last year. We are most pleased by the strong market uptake for mNEXSPIKE even given a midyear launch. mNEXSPIKE now makes up 55% of our COVID vaccination volume.

Slide 14 is a summary of our prioritized pipeline. This pipeline now consists of 3 approved products, 2 programs with positive Phase III results and 5 more candidates in clinical studies with registrational potential.

Moving to Slide 15, which outlines the latest developments in our late-stage respiratory portfolio, I think to start with our COVID vaccines. As mentioned earlier, Spikevax updated 2025-2026 Formula is now approved in 40 countries. For mNEXSPIKE, we received approval for the 25-26 Formula in the U.S and we are also approved in Canada. We have also applied for approval in Europe, Australia, Taiwan and Japan and would expect to launch in those countries in the '26, '27 seasons.

For mRESVIA, our RSV vaccine, it has been approved for adult age 60 and older in 40 countries and also approved for high-risk adults aged 18 to 59 in 31 of those 40 countries. We recently presented multiple data sets from the mRESVIA clinical program at ID Week. For our flu vaccine candidate, MRNA-1010, we expect to complete regulatory submissions for approval in the United States, Canada, Australia and Europe by January 2026. The positive results from our Phase III vaccine efficacy trial were presented at both ID Week and the European Scientific Working Group on Influenza or ESWI this past month.

Moving on to mRNA-1083, our combination flu COVID vaccine candidate. Our filing for approval is under review with the European Medicines Agency. And we expect to refile with Health Canada by the end of 2025. In the U.S., we are awaiting further guidance from the FDA on our plans to refile. We presented Phase III immunogenicity subanalyses for our flu COVID combination program at ESWI.

Now turning to our nonrespiratory vaccine and rare disease portfolios. Our ongoing Phase III norovirus study has not yet accrued sufficient cases needed to conduct the interim analysis after the first season. And as a result, we will proceed to enroll a second Northern Hemisphere season this winter. As before, the timing of the Phase III readout will be dependent upon accruing sufficient cases to trigger the interim analysis.

For mRNA-1647, as we announced in late October, we did not meet the primary endpoint for prevention of infection in our Phase III CMV efficacy study. We are discontinuing development in congenital CMV. However, we will continue to evaluate mRNA-1647 in an ongoing Phase II trial in patients who are undergoing bone marrow transplantation.

In rare diseases, I'm happy to announce that we have reached target enrollment of the registrational study for our propionic acidemia or PA program. We also had the opportunity to present data from our ongoing Phase I/II study at the International Congress of Inborn Errors of Metabolism medical meeting during the quarter. For methylmalonic acidemia, or MMA, we presented interim data from the Phase I/II trial at that same meeting, and we expect our MMA registrational trial to start in 2026.

Turning now to our oncology portfolio. We continue to make significant progress in advancing our programs. For intismeran, which is partnered with Merck, we have several late-stage studies underway. Our Phase III trial in adjuvant melanoma is fully enrolled and accruing events towards its interim analysis. Our Phase II adjuvant renal cell carcinoma trial is also fully enrolled. And as we have disclosed previously, we have 2 Phase III studies in non-small cell lung cancer and multiple randomized Phase II studies, including a Phase II study in high-risk muscle-invasive bladder cancer and a Phase II study in high-risk non-muscle invasive bladder cancer, all of which are still enrolling.

We've also expanded our intismeran program into the metastatic setting with a Phase II study in first-line metastatic melanoma and a recently opened Phase II study in first-line metastatic squamous non-small cell lung cancer. Both these studies are randomized trials. Neoantigen from neoantigen analysis from our Phase II adjuvant melanoma trial was presented at the Society for Melanoma Research Meeting in October.

Now moving to mRNA-4359, which is enrolling a Phase II study in first-line metastatic melanoma and first-line metastatic non-small cell lung cancer patients. The decision to proceed to that phase -- into those Phase II was based on encouraging Phase Ib data, some of which was presented at the recent ESMO Medical Congress.

In early-stage oncology, we are dosing patients in a Phase I trial for our cancer antigen therapy program, mRNA-4106. For our T-cell engager program, mRNA-2808, I'm happy to announce that the first patient was dosed in the Phase I trial during the quarter. Finally, the IND for our cell therapy enhancer, mRNA-4203 is open, and we look forward to enrolling and dosing the first patient in that study. We're pleased by the growth and breadth of our clinical stage oncology pipeline and the continued strong momentum of the multiple Phase III and randomized Phase II trials within our intismeran clinical trial program conducted in partnership with Merck.

With that, I will hand the call over to Stephane.

Stéphane Bancel
CEO & Director

Thank you, Stephen and Jamey. Looking at the 3 value drivers of our business; commercial, pipeline and financial. Commercially, we are seeing the benefit from market share gains of mNEXSPIKE, which we believe will continue in 2026 and beyond. Next year, our commercial business will benefit from the full year contribution from our strategic partnership in Canada, U.K. and Australia. From a pipeline standpoint, we look forward to potential approvals of our combination flu plus COVID vaccine in Europe. The file is currently being reviewed and in Canada, we expect to refile soon.

In the U.S., we look forward to refiling pending further guidance from the FDA. Later this year, we will file our seasonal flu vaccine, mRNA-1010, for approval in the U.S., Canada, Australia and the EU. We also expect to see 2 clinical milestones from our intismeran program. First, the 5-year follow-up data from our Phase II adjuvant melanoma study; and second, the efficacy data from our Phase III adjuvant melanoma study.

We look forward to the Phase II data from our cancer antigen therapy, mRNA-4359. We also look forward to a Phase III efficacy data from norovirus vaccine and the registrational efficacy study data for our PA program, propionic acidemia in rare disease. We have exercised strong financial discipline so far this year. We are ahead of our initial 2025 cash cost production by $900 million. We will continue to improve our cost structure and drive productivity.

For the year-end cash balance projection, we have increased our year-end projection to a range from $6.5 billion to $7 billion, up $500 million to $1 billion from our prior guidance of around $6 billion. We know that a higher cash balance to exit 2025 and a much lower cost structure when we enter 2025 is the right strategy as we transition from a single pandemic product company to a large diversified portfolio of commercial products in seasonal vaccines, oncology medicines and rare disease medicines.

In closing, I want to recognize the entire Moderna team for their relentless dedication to our mission. Our progress, scientific, clinical, commercial and operational is focused on our mission, delivering the greatest possible impact to people through mRNA medicines.

With this, operator, we'll be happy to take questions.