Morgan Stanley (MS) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 15, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Ted Pick - CEO & Chairman of the Board
Sharon Yeshaya - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Glenn Schorr - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Daniel Fannon - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Brennan Hawken - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Devin Ryan - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Michael Mayo - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Steven Chubak - Wolfe Research, LLC
L. Erika Penala - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Christopher McGratty - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. Welcome to Morgan Stanley's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Call. On behalf of Morgan Stanley, I will begin the call with the following information and disclaimer. This call is being recorded. During today's presentation, we will refer to our earnings release, financial supplement and strategic update, copies of which are available at morganstanley.com.

Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. Please refer to our notices regarding forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures that appear in the earnings release and strategic update. Within the strategic update, certain reported information has been adjusted as noted. These adjustments were made to provide a transparent and comparative view of our operating performance. The reconciliations of these non-GAAP adjusted operating performance metrics are included in the notes to the presentation or the earnings release. This presentation may not be duplicated or reproduced without our consent.

I will now turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ted Pick.

Ted, you may proceed.

Ted Pick
CEO & Chairman of the Board

Good morning, and thank you for joining us. In 2025, the U.S. economy proved resilient as ever. As predicted, the capital markets are kicking in with well-capitalized corporates and higher-end consumers driving the economy forward. 2026 starts with the tailwinds of constructive fiscal policy and easier monetary policy. As the arc of history resumes, geopolitics are front and center with a broadening set of opportunities and challenges. While the higher plane of Morgan Stanley results tell a story of durable performance, we are mindful of the combination of geopolitical swirl and ebullient markets. The macro backdrop is complicated.

On the one hand, the setup is ideal. We are monetizing the long-awaited conversion of capital markets green shoots across our investment banking and markets verticals, and we are scaling asset inflows and transaction activity across our wealth businesses. At the same time, we are well served to watch for any overreaching against ongoing global uncertainties and higher asset prices.

2025 results and in fact, the results for every quarter over the last 8, are a blueprint for Morgan Stanley's success. We expect this mix of tailwinds and headwinds to prevail in 2026 and are prepared to continue to execute. We will now walk through the 2026 Strategy Deck entitled: The Integrated Firm Executing on a Higher Plane, which can be found on the Morgan Stanley website. We will then detail fourth quarter and full year results.

Turning to Slide 3. Morgan Stanley's 2025 results were summarized by $9.3 trillion in total client assets, $10.21 in earnings per share, and a 21.6% return on tangible. The firm's trusted adviser franchise delivered across all three metrics.

Slide 4 shows that our average earnings per share and returns on tangible over the last decade reflect the transformation of Morgan Stanley's business model. The last 5 years are the result of share gains and operating leverage via consistent investment in technology, footprint and the successful integration of key strategic acquisitions.

Moving to Slide 5. We're well on track toward our firmwide goals. We've compounded Wealth and Investment Management client assets towards $10 trillion plus. In Institutional Securities, we gained 100 basis points of wallet share with clients across investment banking and markets, reflecting the strength of our integrated investment bank and global franchise.

Please turn to Slide 6. We've moved up the firmwide goals page for review in the context of the last 2 very strong years. 2025 results in the fourth quarter or on an annual basis, broadly met or exceeded our firmwide goals. Asset growth accelerated with last year's additional $1.4 trillion. Wealth's pretax margins are at their highest levels ever, with the fourth quarter's 31% printed result. Institutional Securities gained share across underwriting and equities trading, and we closed the year with a strong advisory result.

In short, the firm is running at a higher run rate. We are executing from a position of strength. Multiyear investments in the core businesses, client momentum, management stability and growing capital excess. But as I observed in the opening, there are both macroeconomic and geopolitical tailwinds and headwinds and in our view, while we are happy to have reached many of these firmwide goals, perhaps earlier than some expected, this is not the time to overreach. These last 8 quarters memorialized consistent execution against different mini macro uncertainties, and our multiyear growth plan contemplates both secular growth in available wallet and continued durable share gains.

Our expectation going forward is that if this environment is welcoming, we are meant to execute at or above these firmwide goals as we did in 2025. And when the backdrop is more challenged, to endeavor to achieve higher lows. The longer-term cadence we seek is a higher plane of operating performance through the cycle as we compound earnings in a capital-efficient way.

Now to the forward growth plan. Please turn to Slide 7, where we review our major businesses. As you know, Wealth has three channels. Our Financial Advisors, Workplace and E*TRADE, each a category leader, which taken together, comprise our strategic client acquisition model. In Institutional Securities, we have deep client relationships and a global footprint under the integrated investment bank. We have diversification in Investment Management led by Parametric, Alternatives and Fixed Income. We continue to invest in each of our three business segments: Wealth, Institutional Securities and Investment Management via human capital and technology.

Our growth plans embed the increasing adoption of AI tools throughout the enterprise and inside our client base. With each passing quarter, our confidence continues to increase in the potential for both the efficiency and the effectiveness of AI-related technologies across the business units and infrastructure.

Slide 8. Our Wealth Management business is built for scale and performance. The Financial Advisors, Workplace and E*TRADE channels are each thriving. The business had net new assets of over $350 billion last year. Over the last 5 years, the firm attracted $1.6 trillion plus of net new assets with a doubling of fee-based flows. For 2025, Wealth achieved $32 billion of revenues, 29% margins. The funnel is working.

Please turn to Slide 9. With 20 million wealth relationships, future growth is embedded in the business. Our intense focus on the value of advice, which generates movement through the funnel allows us to capture opportunities for adviser-led assets. In 2025, we saw accelerating flows across channels with $100 billion migrating to Financial Advisors. We are using our scale to invest in broadening capabilities for FAs that are difficult for others to replicate, alternatives and privates, tax-efficient investing, digitized assets, family office and OCIO and tailored lending. Collaboration across the Integrated Firm is felt by clients for both their corporate and personal wealth needs.

Slide 10 dives deeper into Institutional Securities. We have an established global footprint and revenue base. Banking and markets gained wallet share, delivering margins of 34%, revenue growth supported by the recovery in Investment Banking is running roughly 2x SLR and RWA growth since 2023, reflecting our continued focus on capital efficiency and operating leverage.

Turning to Slide 11. The Institutional Securities value proposition is reflected in the integrated investment bank. We approach client coverage holistically and provide comprehensive solutions with the support of integrated teams, the collegiality and Morgan Stanley tenure of the leadership teams across banking and markets, on average, about 25 years at the firm is critical in bringing the best of our intellectual capital to clients. The themes of the equitization of global markets and the full suite of expertise to advise on cross-border M&A are at our global core, ISG share gains position us well for the global investment banking and capital market cycle in 2026 and beyond.

Please turn to Slide 12. In Investment Management, we continue to benefit from secular growth in investing solutions and the democratization of alternatives. Parametric is the industry leader in tax-efficient investing at $685 billion in AUM and stands to benefit as more clients and asset managers seek customized solutions. Our alternatives platform has more than doubled in 5 years with investable assets now at $270 billion. These and other areas of strength are supported by ongoing investments in technology and global distribution.

Slide 13 underscores Morgan Stanley's global presence. We have 30,000 people outside the U.S. in every business unit and in large tracks of infrastructure. 25% of our revenues this year came from outside the U.S., with EMEA growing revenues by 40% and Asia by 50% over the last 2 years. We have leading businesses in Japan, thanks to our almost 20-year joint ventures with our close partner, MUFG and a world-class business in Hong Kong. We have grown in the EU and maintained leadership in the U.K. in a world that is both deglobalizing and reglobalizing our presence and footprint matter.

Slide 14 illustrates why Morgan Stanley wins as the Integrated Firm. We have scaled capabilities and a business mix that can support our clients throughout an entire life cycle. Our Morgan Stanley work business with its exclusive partnership with Carta positions us as an early trusted adviser to over 50,000 private companies. As Workplace companies grow, we can provide traditional institutional servicing. Employees across our Workplace companies benefit from our management of equity compensation plans, liquidity opportunities and our full-service advice. We are focused on both the public and the private ecosystems, augmented by our recent acquisition of EquityZen. The objective is to cover growth companies and their employees from founding to their public maturity while broadening access for investors to the growing stack of private companies. Again, our technology leadership in wealth enables us to deliver a holistic client experience.

Please turn to Slide 15. Our durable business model and strong earnings profile have kept capital levels high during a period where the regulatory capital framework has normalized. As we have grown fee-based revenue streams, our regulatory minimum CET1 ratio has steadily come down. At a CET1 ratio of 15%, we have over 300 basis points of excess capital. With the passage of time, the continued durability of the business model may be enhanced by further regulatory relief.

Prudent dividend growth comes first. And accordingly, we have raised our quarterly dividend by $0.075 for 4 years in a row to now $1 per share. As we've discussed in previous years, excess capital will be directed to continued dividend growth and to ongoing investment in clients and technology across the Integrated Firm. We will also continue to opportunistically buy back stock. We are keeping full watch on potential M&A adjacency, but we will continue to be patient. Because we have worked diligently through the acquisitions of Smith Barney, Solium, E*TRADE and Eaton Vance over the last 15 years, we know what level of focus and energy is required across the entire firm to make a multiyear integration successful.

In short, we are endeavoring to keep the bar for acquisitions high, bearing in mind that many asset classes, private and public, trade at elevated levels that there is no shortage of ongoing opportunities and that the first call on capital must be to our clients and the continued growth of our core businesses.

Concluding with Slide 16, we're supported by our four pillars of the Integrated Firm: Strategy, Culture, Financial Strength and Growth. Morgan Stanley's Strategy to raise, manage and allocate capital is well understood by our clients, people and our shareholders. Culture is about rigor, humility and partnership. Financial Strength is about capital, earnings power and durability. And Growth is about smart, strategic investment into Wealth, Institutional Securities and Investment Management and across the firm globally. The result is growing assets and compounding earnings in a capital-efficient way over the long term.

Thank you. Now Sharon will review our fourth quarter and annual results, and then we will both take your questions.

Sharon Yeshaya
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, and good morning. 2025 was an exceptional year for the firm, marked by deliberate execution of our strategy. Full year revenues reached a record of $70.6 billion and the fourth quarter revenues were $17.9 billion. Expanding markets, increasing client demand for advice and improving client engagement supported results across businesses. Concurrently, multiyear investments in our talent, the integration of acquisitions, Workplace and the Integrated Firm have significantly contributed to growth and momentum. Our ROTCE was 21.6%, and we generated record EPS of $10.21 for the full year. Alongside fourth quarter ROTCE and EPS of 21.8% and $2.68, respectively.

In 2025, we delivered operating leverage, while continuing to invest for future growth and advancing productivity initiatives firmwide, our full year efficiency ratio improved to 68.4%, underscoring disciplined execution and rigorous prioritization of investments.

Now to the businesses. Institutional Securities delivered a record full year revenues of $33.1 billion, including $7.9 billion in the fourth quarter. We continue to invest in our global footprint and capabilities, resulting in competitive advantages and industry leadership, a strong macro backdrop, improving corporate confidence and open capital markets position us well to continue to capture durable share.

Investment Banking revenues were $7.6 billion for the full year, reflecting year-over-year growth across products and regions. Fourth quarter revenues of $2.4 billion increased 47% from the prior year. Results were led by a record in debt underwriting, and advisory crossing $1 billion for the second strongest quarter ever. Corporates leaned into constructive financing conditions to fund strategic priorities, while sponsors were also active completing previously announced M&A transactions. Equity issuance led by convertibles and IPOs remain strong, driving consistent results in equity underwriting.

Looking ahead to 2026, Investment Banking pipelines remain healthy, global and diversified across sectors. Strategic activity is accelerating. Companies and sponsors are looking to access capital for growth investments and the reopening of the IPO market creates additional opportunities for clients.

Turning to Equity. The business delivered record full year revenues of $15.6 billion. Our global share gains this year were driven by increased client engagement and dynamic risk management. Revenues were $3.7 billion in the quarter. All businesses were up versus the prior year's fourth quarter on the back of higher client activity. Prime Brokerage revenues drove the fourth quarter's results. Client balances continue to rise, supporting the outlook for financing revenues. Cash results increased versus last year's fourth quarter reflecting higher volumes across regions. Derivative results were up versus last year's fourth quarter as well, benefiting from our consistent investments in our client franchise and product offerings.

Fixed Income revenues were $8.7 billion for the full year. And importantly, investing in our lending businesses has contributed to increased consistency and stability of our franchise. Quarterly revenues were $1.8 billion. Micro and macro results declined versus the prior fourth quarter, reflecting lower volatility in foreign exchange and weaker performance in credit corporates. Commodities results declined primarily due to lower power and gas revenues, which had benefited from several large structured transactions in last year's fourth quarter.

Turning to Wealth Management. 2025 demonstrates the consistent execution of our strategy. We delivered full year records across revenues and reported margins reaching $31.8 billion and 29%, respectively. Both net new assets of $356 billion and fee-based flows of $160 billion for the full year demonstrate industry-leading growth. Workplace and E*TRADE relationships continue to seek out advice. Adviser-led assets originating from Workplace and E*TRADE relationships accelerated growing to a record $99 billion for the full year, compared to historical averages of around $60 billion per year.

Moving to our business metrics for the fourth quarter. Record revenues reached $8.4 billion, and the business delivered strong operating leverage with the reported margin expanding to 31.4%. DCP negatively impacted the quarterly margin by approximately 95 basis points. Asset management revenues were a record $5 billion, benefiting from expanding markets and consistently strong fee-based flows. This marked our third consecutive quarter of fee-based flows exceeding $40 billion, a first for this industry. Transactional revenues were $1.1 billion, elevated activity across both adviser-led and self-directed clients drove the strength. Additionally, net new assets for the quarter were robust at $122 billion with contributions across all channels. Growth was supported by institutional relationships related to the Integrated Firm.

Bank lending balances grew $7 billion sequentially to $181 billion, driven by securities-based lending and mortgages, growth reflects our efforts to deepen client penetration with SBLs, leveraging technology to improve automation and facilitate the client acquisition openings as well as increasing education with our advisers and our clients. Sequentially, total period deposits grew $10 billion to $408 billion, and net interest income increased to $2.1 billion. The growth in NII was driven by the increase in sweep deposits and loan balances.

Looking ahead to the first quarter, we expect NII to remain roughly flat quarter-over-quarter as higher average sweeps and lending balances should help to offset the full impact of the two rate cuts in the fourth quarter. As we look ahead to the remainder of 2026, assuming the current forward curve incremental loan growth, and our projections for the deposit mix, we expect NII to continue to trend higher.

Before concluding, one update on DCP. Over the course of the first quarter, we will be transitioning all economic hedges for DCP obligations to derivative instruments. As previously announced, we will also increase the cash component of our adviser compensation. We are making these changes to reduce the accounting-driven volatility in revenues and earnings. While there will be some transitional costs, these changes support our overall investment into our financial advisers and will help simplify our compensation program.

The full year, inclusive of momentum in the first quarter -- fourth quarter exemplified our strategy to reach new relationships, grow assets and deliver advice solutions to clients. Strategic initiatives, such as our recent acquisition of EquityZen, expanded partnership with Carta and collaboration with Zero Hash, all reflect our commitment to innovation. Together, they lay the foundation for sustainable growth to widen our competitive moats. Our intentional strategy to introduce and educate retail clients to the value of advice, coupled with consistent education over the past several years sets our franchise apart and positions us to continue to outperform.

Turning to Investment Management. Our franchise delivered strong results this year with durable management fee revenues reaching all-time highs. The margin continued to steadily improve. Total revenues were $6.5 billion, and we scale to a record $1.9 trillion in AUM. The business has now generated 6 consecutive quarters of positive long-term net flows with ongoing demand for Parametric and fixed income strategies, supporting the full year long-term goal net inflows of $34 billion. Long-term net inflows were approximately $2 billion in the quarter. Importantly, our broadened portfolio helped offset equity outflows, benefiting from the consistent strength in fixed income, Parametric and global distribution.

Liquidity and Overlay Services saw $68 billion of inflows for the quarter, driven by institutional demand, some of which may be seasonal. Fourth quarter revenues were $1.7 billion, driven by higher asset management and related fees on higher average AUM. As a reminder, certain performance fees are recognized on an annual basis largely in the fourth quarter, which drove the sequential increase. Performance-based income and other revenues were $71 million in the quarter. Gains in U.S. private equity and private credit more than offset markdowns in our infrastructure fund.

Turning to the balance sheet. Total spot assets were $1.4 trillion. Standardized RWAs increased sequentially to $553 billion. Our standardized CET1 ratio ended the year at 15%. For the full year, we bought back $4.6 billion of common stock, including $1.5 billion for the quarter. Our tax rate was 21.5% for the full year and 23.2% for the quarter. We expect our 2026 tax rate to be between 22% and 23%. And consistent with prior years, we do expect some quarterly volatility.

As we look ahead into 2026, the firm enters the year from a position of strength. Our Wealth and Investment Management businesses exited with $9.3 trillion in total client assets. Client engagement remains high. Our pipelines are healthy, and our global footprint positions us well to continue to deliver advice and solutions across markets. We remain focused on investing for the future and scaling our business to perform through various market environments.

With that, we will now open the line up to questions.

