MSC Industrial Direct Co., Inc. (MSM) Q1 2026 Earnings Call January 7, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Ryan Mills - Head of Investor Relations
Martina McIsaac - President, CEO & Director
Gregory Clark - VP & Interim CFO

Conference Call Participants

Ryan Merkel - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Kenneth Newman - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Thomas Moll - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Nigel Coe - Wolfe Research, LLC
Patrick Baumann - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Christopher Dankert - Loop Capital Markets LLC, Research Division
David Manthey - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings. Welcome to the MSC Reports Fiscal 2026 First Quarter Results. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the conference over to your host, Ryan Mills, Vice President, Investor Relations and Business Development. You may begin.

Ryan Mills
Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our fiscal 2026 first quarter earnings call. Martina McIsaac, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Clark, Interim Chief Financial Officer, are on the call with me today. During today's call, we will refer to various financial data in the earnings presentation and operational statistics documents, both of which can be found on our Investor Relations website.

Let me reference our safe harbor statement found on Slide 2 of the earnings presentation. Our comments on this call as well as the supplemental information we are providing on the website contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these statements. Information about these risks are noted in our earnings press release and other SEC filings.

During this call, we may refer to certain adjusted financial results, which are non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the GAAP versus non-GAAP reconciliations in our presentation or on our website, which contain the reconciliations of the adjusted financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.

I will now turn the call over to Martina.

Martina McIsaac
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Ryan, and good morning, everyone. As many of you know, this marks my first week as CEO of MSC.

Before we dive into our fiscal first quarter performance, I would like to share some thoughts since we last spoke. First and foremost, it's an honor and privilege to serve as the fifth CEO in MSC's 80-plus year history. As part of the transition over the last couple of months, I've spent time engaging with our people, our suppliers and our customers. This time has reaffirmed our direction, and I would like to share more about those near-term priorities on our path to creating incremental value.

First, we are reconnecting and growing with our Core Customer, and we must remain steadfast in our focus to execute on the initiatives that have restored this growth. Most of these initiatives have been in flight for less than a year and tremendous opportunity remains ahead. In addition to our work on pricing, website and marketing, our highest priority over the last year has been to optimize the design of our sales organization to better match resource to potential and put us closer to the Core Customer.

At the end of the first quarter, we turned our attention to our service model now, applying the same principles and aligning those teams to our more efficient geographic territory design. This will lead to an improved customer experience and enabled us to further optimize our cost structure in early 2Q. We now look forward to driving sales excellence as we leverage our recent organizational changes and our new leadership structure that balances long-term MSC tenure with new thinking from the outside.

I am particularly excited now that Jahida Nadi is onboarded in her role as SVP of Sales. She will continue to strengthen our sales execution in the field as Kim Shacklett moves fully into her new role as SVP, Customer Experience. By decentralizing and streamlining decision-making in this new structure, we will amplify the impacts of these changes and strengthen our position to achieve our long-term vision to enhance customer experience and accelerate our ability to capture greater share of wallet.

To truly outperform, we must leverage our supplier community as a strong partner in these efforts as well. Over a year ago, we created a supplier council that we meet with regularly to share ideas and opportunities. These discussions are now evolving to the development of joint strategies to accelerate MSC's growth.

For example, turning to Slide 4. I'm pleased to announce that in late February, we will be hosting an inaugural growth forum where approximately 1,400 MSC associates in customer-facing roles will come together with our supplier community. The event was designed in collaboration with our supplier council for maximum effectiveness and impact.

Using data to pair sellers and suppliers in pursuit of a pipeline of customer opportunities, this highly curated 3-day industry-leading event will be unlike our previous or other supplier conferences in its level of focus and partnership with our suppliers. We expect this event to be a key growth accelerator for MSC, demonstrating MSC's clear commitment to take sales execution to the next level.

To enable our vision, it's clear that we must drive speed and consistency in our daily decision-making through our technology platform. Our CIO, John Reichelt and his organization have continued making progress on the evaluation of our systems road map and will provide recommendations upon completion. We must also strengthen and improve financial visibility through our operating system to enhance our daily decision-making. Having the right leader will be critical in achieving this, which is why we are taking a selective approach to our search for a permanent CFO that remains a top priority.

And finally, we're committed to elevating our strong differentiated culture. Our culture is a competitive advantage rooted in a highly talented and technical team that consistently puts the customer first. Building on the proud family legacy that is shaped who we are, we are raising expectations, driving more rigorous performance management and embedding a mindset of continuous improvement to deliver even stronger results.

By remaining steadfast in these key areas of focus, we will capture the tremendous potential I see ahead and position MSC to achieve higher levels of profitable growth. In short, I am more energized than ever, and I want to thank our entire team of associates for their support and endless dedication to providing the best service to our customers.

Before we move to the quarter's results, I want to highlight one further element of our strong culture and our commitment to improving each and every day and share with you some highlights from our most recent ESG report released last month. First, we've reaffirmed our commitment to the planet and established a new long-term goal of reducing our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 15% by 2030. We supported the recycling of over 8,000 pounds of carbide. We were recognized as being a best company to work for by several organizations across several dimensions. And lastly, we continue our strong partnership with nonprofit organizations, including American Corporate with whom we work to provide mentorship to military members as they transition into a civilian workforce.

Now digging deeper into our 1Q results on Slide 6. I am pleased with our performance in the fiscal first quarter. Average daily sales came in at the midpoint of our outlook and increased 4% year-over-year. This was primarily driven by benefits from price of approximately 4.2% that was partially offset by volumes that contracted by 30 basis points.

The decline in volumes was largely driven by the federal government shutdown, which negatively impacted sales by approximately 100 basis points in the quarter. This headwind was felt most in the public sector as seen by a year-over-year decline of 5% in the quarter. Following the resolution of the shutdown, however, we have seen public sector sales resume growth in December.

We were pleased to see National Accounts return to growth in the quarter, but once again, underpinning our sales performance were daily sales trends in core and other customers that have now outperformed total company sales for 2 consecutive quarters. Core customers grew approximately 6% in Q1, buoyed by our initiatives around e-commerce, marketing and seller optimization.

Looking at the details, we experienced another quarter of year-over-year improvement in the number of customer location touches logged by field sales in fiscal 1Q. This is having a direct impact on our sales per rep per day trend as seen by the high single-digit improvement in this quarter. The positive trend in these 2 metrics as well as in total company sales was achieved with fewer sellers, reflecting the efficiency of our new territory design. We will now take these learnings and apply them to geographies outside the U.S.

Second, benefits from our web upgrades and enhanced marketing efforts continue to be realized in the quarter. Average daily sales on the web increased mid-single digits year-over-year. This was supported by several KPIs that continued improving year-over-year during the quarter, including the conversion rates of our top channels and direct traffic to the website. With respect to marketing, our efforts continued producing benefits in the quarter, including high single-digit improvement in the daily sales of our uncovered core customers. Given this building momentum, accelerated investment in marketing will likely continue.

And third, we continue expanding our solutions footprint with our installed vending base, which was up roughly 9% year-over-year and our In-Plant programs, which were up 13% at quarter end. While In-Plant signings remain strong, our year-over-year growth in the net number of programs at quarter end moderated in comparison to recent trending. This is not due to a slowing in the opportunity funnel, but rather an increased emphasis on sharpening financial acumen in the field. As a result, we saw a number of existing In-Plant programs convert back to more cost-effective service options better scaled to customer needs, such as traditional VMI. By working together with those customers, we were able to retain revenues at a lower cost to serve.

Moving to profitability for the quarter. Gross margin of 40.7% came in at the midpoint of our outlook. As a reminder, in fiscal 4Q, gross margin was pressured by negative price/cost due to greater-than-anticipated levels of inflation during the last 2 months of that quarter. This was addressed in fiscal 1Q by taking action on price in late September and early October.

Given the timing of these actions, price cost and gross margin performed similar to 4Q for the month of September. That said, I'm pleased with our performance with price cost and gross margin both returning to expected levels as we exited the first quarter. Reported operating margin came in at 7.9% and adjusted operating margin of 8.4% came in at the upper range of our outlook, resulting in an incremental operating margin of 18% on an adjusted basis.

Looking ahead, under a mid-single-digit growth scenario, we continue to expect adjusted incremental operating margins to be approximately 20% for the full fiscal year. Underpinning this confidence are several factors. First, we expect continued traction on our growth initiatives and hence, growth above the IP index. Second, we anticipate ongoing benefits from price, which should yield gross margin stability. And third, our productivity initiatives, including our ongoing network optimization should continue yielding benefits, allowing us to support higher levels of revenues in the back half of the year with moderating operating expense growth.

Turning to the environment. I would describe demand across the majority of our primary markets as stable. Aerospace remains strong, while some areas of softness remain in automotive and heavy truck. These mixed levels of demand are reflected in the MBI as seen by the recent readings, which remain in contractionary territory.

Looking at Slide 7, however, I am encouraged to see how MSC is performing in this environment. Average daily sales outpaced the Industrial Production Index for the second consecutive quarter as a result of our improved Core Customer performance. Thus far in the fiscal second quarter, average daily sales for fiscal December, which ended for MSC on January 3, improved approximately 2.5% year-over-year.

On a sequential basis, however, the month-over-month decline of roughly 20% was worse than what we typically experience in the month. Feedback we were receiving from customers around their planned shutdown activity suggested the month would be challenging. However, in addition, Christmas and New Year's occurred on a Thursday this year, which historically is typically the most challenging day for the holidays to fall on.

To put some color on this, our sales from Christmas through the end of the fiscal month were down approximately 20% year-over-year and weighed heavily on the overall growth rate in fiscal December. Having said that, we were pleased to see the Core Customer maintained its trend of outperforming total company sales during the month.

Looking ahead, with only 3 days into fiscal January, visibility into demand levels entering the new calendar year and the remainder of the quarter is limited. Greg will provide more detail on what this implies for our 2Q outlook. But despite this uncertainty, under a mid-single-digit growth scenario, we continue to expect adjusted incremental operating margins to be approximately 20% for the full fiscal year, supported by the momentum from the execution of our initiatives that continues to build.

And with that, I will now turn the call over to Greg to cover our financial results in greater detail and expectations for the fiscal second quarter.

Gregory Clark
VP & Interim CFO

Thank you, Martina, and good morning, everyone. Please turn to Slide 8, where you'll find key metrics for the fiscal first quarter on both a reported and adjusted basis. Fiscal first quarter sales of approximately $966 million came in at the midpoint of our daily sales outlook and improved 4% year-over-year. Price contributed 420 basis points to growth and was partially offset by a 30 basis point decline in volumes that can be attributed to the 100 basis point headwind related to the federal government shutdown.

Sequentially, I am pleased by our modest improvement in daily sales despite the headwind during the quarter that I just mentioned. This was largely driven by benefits from price and strength in both core and national account customers. By customer type, we were pleased by the continued strength in Core Customer daily sales with year-over-year improvement of 6% in the quarter. National Accounts improved 3%, while public sector daily sales declined 5% as a result of the federal government shutdown.

On a sequential basis, average daily sales improved approximately 2% for both National Accounts and core customers, while Public Sector daily sales declined by approximately 14%. In Solutions, as Martina mentioned, we are encouraged by the continued expansion of our footprint. From a sales perspective, daily sales in vending for the first quarter were up 9% year-over-year and represented 19% of total company sales. Daily sales to customers with an In-Plant program grew by 13% and represented approximately 20% of total company net sales.

Moving to profitability for the quarter. Gross margins of 40.7% performed as expected and was flat compared to the prior year period. This was primarily driven by benefits from mix due to lower Public Sector sales of 10 basis points that were offset by a price/cost headwind. As a reminder, we took actions on the price after the first month in 1Q and exited the quarter in a better price/cost position.

Operating expenses in the first quarter were approximately $312 million on both a reported and adjusted basis and slightly favorable compared to the midpoint of our expectations. On an adjusted basis, operating expenses were up approximately $8 million year-over-year, primarily driven by the combination of higher personnel-related costs and depreciation and amortization being partially offset by productivity. Adjusted operating expenses as a percentage of sales improved 40 basis points compared to the prior year due to the increase in sales. Sequentially, adjusted operating expenses increased approximately $7 million and was primarily due to the same drivers of the year-over-year increase.

Reported operating margin for the quarter was 7.9% compared to 7.8% in the prior year. On an adjusted basis, operating margin of 8.4% was slightly above the midpoint of our outlook and compared favorably to 8% in the prior year. We delivered GAAP EPS of $0.93 compared to $0.83 in the prior year. On an adjusted basis, we delivered EPS of $0.99 compared to $0.86 in the prior year, an improvement of 15%.

Turning to Slide 9 to review our balance sheet and free cash flow performance. We continue to maintain a healthy balance sheet with net debt of approximately $491 million, representing roughly 1.2x EBITDA. Capital expenditures of roughly $22 million were up approximately $2 million year-over-year as expected. We generated approximately $7.4 million of free cash flow in the quarter, representing approximately 14% of net income.

It's worth noting that inventory investment, combined with a step-up in receivables and prepaid expenses were the primary factors of the free cash flow decline year-over-year. Despite the slow start, we remain on track to achieve our expectation of 90% free cash flow conversion for the fiscal year.

Lastly, in 2Q, we proactively amended our AR securitization facility and increased its capacity by $50 million to $350 million. Compared to the use of alternative sources such as our revolver, this approach is expected to lower our cost of funds by over $1 million annually.

Looking at our capital allocation strategy on Slide 10. Our highest priorities remain organic investment to fuel growth and advancing operational efficiencies across the business. Returning capital to shareholders also remains a priority. And in fiscal 1Q, we returned approximately $62 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

Moving to our expectations for the fiscal quarter on Slide 11. We anticipate average daily sales growth of 3.5% to 5.5% compared to the prior year. Sequentially, we expect daily sales to decline approximately 4% to 6% compared to the fiscal first quarter.

While the midpoint of our outlook compares favorably to our sequential performance moving from 1Q to 2Q last year, it is below our historical performance in 2Q and driven by the following factors that I will now highlight. First, due to the timing of our supplier conference that takes place during the last week of the fiscal quarter, we anticipate some revenues to shift from 2Q to 3Q and create a headwind of approximately 50 basis points. Second, and as seen in the operating stats, December sales this fiscal year were weaker than normal. This was anticipated due to the holidays, which fell on a Thursday this year, combined with feedback from customers on their planned shutdown activity for the month.

That said, there are some sequential factors that we expect to work in our favor in 2Q and partially offset these headwinds. Starting with Public Sector, assuming headwinds related to the government shutdown in 1Q do not occur in 2Q, it will benefit daily sales by approximately 50 basis points sequentially. As a reminder, 2Q is typically the seasonal low for Public Sector sales, which was considered in the amount of the expected benefit. And second, we expect sequential benefits from price and momentum from our growth initiatives to continue in 2Q.

Lastly, on sales. The midpoint of our range implies a year-over-year growth a little more than 5% in January and February. Under this revenue range, we expect adjusted operating margin for the quarter to be 7.3% to 7.9% or up approximately 50 basis points at the midpoint compared to the prior year, driven by the following assumptions: gross margin of 40.8%, plus or minus 20 basis points that includes negative mix for the Public Sector sequentially of approximately 10 basis points. In operating expenses, the headcount actions in early 2Q that were enabled by our sales optimization work to offset the sequential headwind to 2 extra months of the annual merit increase in 2Q versus 1Q.

Lastly, and included in the operating expenses are costs related to our supplier conference that won't be self-funded through supplier registration fees such as travel, which will negatively impact adjusted operating margin by approximately 10 basis points.

It is worth noting that this includes incremental margins in January and February that are higher than the average implied for the quarter following a seasonally soft December. We expect the January and February strength to sustain for the balance of the fiscal year as the benefits from productivity and pricing is expected to support higher levels of revenues with moderating operating expense growth. All of this underpins our confidence that under a mid-single-digit growth scenario, we expect adjusted incremental operating margins to be approximately 20% for the full fiscal year.

Turning to the next slide for an updated view of our expectations on certain line items for the full year. Depreciation and amortization expense of $95 million to $100 million or an increase of $5 million to $10 million year-over-year. interest and other expense of roughly $35 million, capital expenditures of $100 million to $110 million, a tax rate between 24.5% and 25.5% and free cash flow conversion of approximately 90%.

To assist in modeling the cadence of sales for the remainder of the fiscal year, the bottom of the slide provides historical quarter-over-quarter averages and key considerations for the second quarter and the back half of the fiscal year. And lastly, we have 1 extra selling day year-over-year in the fourth quarter, as shown at the bottom of the chart.

And with that, we will open the line for Q&A.

