Strategy Inc (MSTR) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 30, 2025 5:00 PM EDT

Company Participants

Shirish Jajodia
Andrew Kang - Executive VP & CFO
Phong Le - President, CEO & Director
Michael Saylor - Executive Chairman

Conference Call Participants

Andrew Harte - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Mark Palmer - The Benchmark Company, LLC, Research Division
Brian Dobson - Clear Street LLC
Lance Vitanza - TD Cowen, Research Division
Ben Werkman - Strive Asset Management, LLC

Presentation

Shirish Jajodia

Hello, everyone, and good evening. I'm Shirish Jajodia, Corporate Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations at Strategy. I will be your moderator for Strategy's 2025 Third Quarter Earnings Webinar.

We will start with the call with a 60-minutes presentation, starting first with Andrew Kang, followed by Phong Le and then Michael Saylor. This will be followed by a 30-minutes interactive Q&A session with four Wall Street equity analysts and four Bitcoin analysts.

Before we proceed, I will read the safe harbor statement. Some of the information we provide in this presentation regarding our future expectations, plans, guidance and prospects may constitute forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, our guidance with respect to earnings and our KPIs contained in this presentation. Actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements due to various important factors, including fluctuations in the price of Bitcoin and the risk factors discussed in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 5, 2025, and our current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 6, 2025. We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of today.

With that, I will turn the call over to Andrew Kang, the CFO of Strategy.

Andrew Kang
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Shirish. And I'll start with some highlights for the quarter. We now hold 640,808 Bitcoin or over 3% of all Bitcoin ever to exist. This reinforces the scale and the dominance of our corporate Bitcoin treasury company. We have a market cap of $83 billion, which positions us among top publicly listed companies in the U.S. And we have four listed preferred securities in the market, STRF, STRK, STRD and STRC. With STRCs or Stretch being the largest U.S. IPO of 2025 so far, and all which continue to grow in liquidity and investor interest each and every day. We've also raised $19.8 billion in capital year-to-date to acquire more Bitcoin. And our capital markets platform continues to deepen in liquidity and investor interest, and we continue to show positive performance in our Bitcoin metrics, all central to generating long-term shareholder value.

Moving on to EPS results. Turning to our Q3 2025 GAAP financial results. We reported $3.9 billion in operating income, $2.8 billion in net income and earnings of $8.43 per share. That's a transformative improvement year-over-year, reflecting a strong performance in Bitcoin, the fair value treatment we now have on our Bitcoin and disciplined capital raising activities. This marks our second consecutive quarter of significant positive GAAP earnings and over $8 billion in positive earnings in the last four quarters.

Next slide. Our results for the first nine months of the year showed $12 billion in GAAP operating income, $8.6 billion in net income and earnings of $27.80 per share, continuing our record-breaking year of performance.

Moving on to Bitcoin per share. Bitcoin per share, as we introduced last quarter, measures the accretion of Bitcoin on a per share basis by calculating the ratio between the company's Bitcoin holdings and assumed diluted shares outstanding here represented in Satoshis. Through October 26, our Bitcoin per share was $41,370 compared to Bitcoin per share of $39,716 as of July 31. We are consistently accumulating more Bitcoin per share each quarter, the highest of any Bitcoin treasury company, creating direct and measurable value for our shareholders.

Next slide. Since adopting our Bitcoin strategy in 2020, we've consistently increased Bitcoin per share. We began with 56,598 Bitcoin per share in 2020. And as of October 2025, that has grown to 200,197 Bitcoin per share, more than a 3.5x increase over that period. We've also grown BTC yield year after year through disciplined capital raises and immediate conversion into Bitcoin on our balance sheet, reflecting a 26% BTC yield year-to-date. This sustained growth reinforces our ability to deliver Bitcoin yield to our shareholders through market cycles and by continuously executing on our capital markets and acquisition strategy.

Next slide. Here, we highlight our year-to-date Bitcoin performance metrics versus our full-year 2025 targets. Year-to-date, we've achieved a 26% BTC yield compared to our revised full year target of 30%. Our year-to-date BTC gain is 116,555 BTC, up from 88,000 at the end of Q2, reflecting disciplined capital deployment and the strengthening of our Bitcoin balance sheet. Our BTC gain performance translates into approximately $12.9 billion in BTC dollar gain year-to-date compared to our $20 billion full year goal.

Next slide. We now hold 640,808 Bitcoin or $71 billion, purchased at a total cost of $47 billion or an average $74,000 per Bitcoin. And we now hold approximately 3.1% of all Bitcoin that will ever exist. And as in the past, 100% of our Bitcoin remain fully unencumbered.

This next slide highlights the transformation of our balance sheet over the past year and the continued strength we've seen through the third quarter. Year-over-year, digital assets grew from just under $7 billion in Q3 of 2024 to just over $73 billion in Q3 of 2025, driven by both additional Bitcoin acquisitions and the adoption of fair value accounting at the beginning of the year. The accounting change alone added approximately $18 billion to our digital assets and $12.7 billion to total equity at the time of adoption. Quarter-over-quarter, digital assets have continued to climb from $64.4 billion in Q2 to $73.2 billion in Q3, alongside steady growth in total equity on our balance sheet, reaching now $58.1 billion at the end of Q3. Overall, fair value accounting has made our balance sheet more transparent for our investors, while execution in introducing innovative digital credit through our preferred equity IPOs this year has continued to expand shareholder equity and reinforce the company's position as the leading Bitcoin treasury company.

Next slide. In Q3, we recognized an increase in our Bitcoin holdings from $64.4 billion at the end of Q2 to $73.2 billion at the end of Q3. This increase was made up of $3.9 billion of fair value gain in our Bitcoin holdings, which was due to the change in Bitcoin price between the first and last day of the quarter and also through the addition of $5 billion of new Bitcoin added to our balance sheet in Q3.

Next slide. As of October 24, our enterprise value was $98 billion with a market cap of $83 billion, which is supported by a Bitcoin net asset value of $71 billion or 72% of total enterprise value. Our $8.2 billion of convertible debt is equal to just 11.6% of our total Bitcoin NAV and the $6.6 billion of prefs represent just 9.3% of our Bitcoin holdings. Our annual dividend and interest obligations totaled $689 million, which is less than 1% of our total Bitcoin, reflecting the efficiency and sustainability of our balance sheet. And our capital structure is built to endure volatility, provide stability, scalability and long-term shareholder confidence.

Next slide. We continue to have $8.2 billion in total notional debt across our converts with all but two that remain in the money with a total weighted average maturity of 4.4 years. The total current notional value of our outstanding preferred equity as of October 24 stands at approximately $6.7 billion, up from $6.3 billion as of July 29.

Next slide. Our total annual interest and dividend obligations are $689 million, which consists of $35 million in interest expense on our converts which is about 42 basis points average cost. And we have $522 million in dividend obligations from our cumulative preferreds, STRF, STRC and STRK and an additional $125 million related to our noncumulative preferred STRD.

Here, we show we have more than sufficient access to liquidity to manage our total annual interest and dividend obligations through our proven track record of capital raising activities. Our total annual obligations represent only about 1.7% of total capital raised in the last 12 months and only about 2.6% of total common equity raised in the last 12 months. As a measure of our strong financial performance, our fixed obligations represent only 6.1% of year-to-date GAAP operating income.

Next slide. Finally, we are extremely pleased with the IRS interim guidance that was issued on September 30, which now excludes unrealized gains from our Bitcoin holdings from adjusted financial statement income for purposes of CAMT. Not only does this important clarification directly benefit strategy, but it also paves the way for other corporations to hold and grow Bitcoin on their balance sheets. We are grateful and appreciative for the support of treasury, IRS, Congress and the administration for aligning on the importance of clarifying the specific rule under CAMT and lifting what otherwise would have been an extremely burdensome rule that would have targeted digital assets. and for continuing to support the growth and innovation of the digital asset economy.

I'll now turn the call over to Phong Le, Strategy's President and CEO. Thank you.

Phong Le
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Andrew. I will go through an update on our capital markets activity, and then I will review the guidance that we provided for 2025.

So, first, I want to welcome and invite everybody to join us in four months in Las Vegas at the beautiful Wynn resort for Strategy World 2026 and our fifth annual Bitcoin for corporations. So hopefully, those who are listening or watching this presentation and have been a fan of strategy software or strategy and our Bitcoin strategy can come out and join us.

So, next slide, Shirish. So taking a step back, we used to compare ourselves to other companies that have Bitcoin on their balance sheet. And as you know, with over 640,000 Bitcoin and nearly over 3.1% or nearly 3.1% of all the Bitcoin effort to be created in the world, we found it best to compare ourselves to the largest corporate treasuries in the world. You'll see here with $71 billion of Bitcoin on our balance sheet, we're fifth when comparing cash and short-term investments and excluding financial services companies. And our aspiration in the next year is to be #2 and the next 5 to 10 years to be #1. And so how do we do that?

Next slide. What we've done in the past in the last two years is raise a significant amount of equity and capital through the capital markets. In 2024, we raised $22.6 million and about 27% of that or $6.2 million was from the convertible debt market. Year-to-date this year, we've raised $19.8 billion. And what you can see here is the way we've raised it has changed significantly. We've reduced our convertible debt raises to about 10%, and we've increased our raises through preferreds to $6 billion or about 30%. And that was all happened -- that has all happened this year. It's really just been since the end of January of 2025 that we've launched our preferred strategy, and it's been very successful so far year-to-date.

As we start to reduce our reliance on convertible notes, our plan is to allow those to equitize over time. And based on the earliest potential equitization dates, you'll see here that by 2029, we'll have no more convertible debt on our balance sheet.

And instead, what we'll do is we'll start to season the preferred market. You'll see through the course of this year through four IPOs, and as Andrew had mentioned, the largest IPO coming three months ago with STRC or Stretch, we've been able to raise $6.7 billion through the preferred market. And interestingly, as you look at this, a largest portion of that raise has come from the retail market. The initial offering of Strike had about 4% access or raises through retail. And the latest one stretch had about 23% through retail.

Next slide, Shirish. So how do we seize in the market and how do we grow our preferred offerings and raising more capital through our preferred offerings. Three real techniques that you'll see us continue to use. First is distribution. Recently, in the last month, we've seen more brokerages list our preferreds. Robinhood listed each of our four preferreds in the last month, and we've seen significant volume and liquidity through Robinhood. And they listed those as the first ever preferreds on the platform because of demand from other folks that were on Robinhood.

We're also going to continue to distribute through wealth management, broker-dealers, RIAs, Morgan Stanley participated in our latest preferred, which gave us significant access to their wealth management channel, retail customers. And we'll start to work with different banks and financial institutions to explore other types of products, potentially ETF wrappers and structured finance products that have our preferreds underlying them. We're doing more and more in terms of field marketing, industry conferences, leveraged finance events where we seek access to customers and buyers who are interested in credit and debt products. We're also doing more and more teach-in, so just feet on the street meeting with financial advisers, brokers, RIAs and family offices.

And last is you'll see more digital marketing. You're already seeing us provide some information and advertise some of our preferreds, namely Stretch and social media on X. We plan to have even greater presence on YouTube, traditional media potentially, channels like Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg. We continue to use our strategy.com website and our strategy app, which if you have not downloaded it, I suggest you do so and more and more presence on interviews and podcasts. So these are three different ways we'll continue to create distribution and awareness of our credit instruments.

The other area of distribution that we are going to look to access with our preferred credit instruments is international expansion, right? Currently, our products are listed on the NASDAQ and our U.S.-based products, U.S. dollar-based products. But there's a significant access to capital that we can get if we were to, as an example, launch a Canadian product on a Canadian exchange in Canadian dollars, launch a European product on a European exchange, euro or potentially other areas of the world like Asia or Latin America also. And we think by accessing these markets and by providing new products that are similar to our preferred products like Stretch or Strife that we can access even greater pools of capital to provide more funding for us to ultimately buy more Bitcoin that's accretive to our shareholders.

We announced this week on Monday that we have now the first ever published rating of a Bitcoin treasury company by a major credit agency. S&P has assigned us a B- issuer credit rating to strategy. We think this is a big milestone, not just for strategy and for Bitcoin treasury companies, but a big milestone for Bitcoin in and of itself. There's been a lot of discussion around whether we think this is a good rating or not a good rating. I think it's a solid starting rating. And I think even more importantly, to have a rating, it gives us access to more pools of capital.

So what does a B- rating mean? By definition, it means that there's a stable outlook and it reflects the expectation that we'll continue to manage our capital structure prudently and retain that we maintain market access. We are rated under a structure that's a framework that's called nonbank financial institutions. That's a framework that S&P uses to rate us. And importantly, at this point in time, Bitcoin is -- we don't get any credit for the Bitcoin on our balance sheet when it comes to our rating, it's deducted from our equity. And this drives negative risk-adjusted capital.

So what needs to change for the rating to improve? Well, one, I think it's appropriate at some point in time that Bitcoin be treated differently and as a capital asset at full credit, and that would require the risk-adjusted capital or the Basel frameworks to change or for S&P to change how they look at capital at Bitcoin as capital. And I think that will start to happen over time. We see already other banks seeing Bitcoin as potential collateral. We've seen the U.S. housing agencies suggest that Bitcoin should be collateral for mortgages. So as that starts to evolve, I think the risk-adjusted capital and the Basel frameworks will start to evolve. And I think the S&P will evolve in its view on Bitcoin. But it's good to have a stake in the ground.

I mentioned the potential equitization of our outstanding convertible debt because these are senior to our preferreds and are at the top of our capital structure in terms of seniority. As these start to roll off, that will start to reduce our maturity risk, and that should also improve our rating.

And finally, what we've been doing for the last five years, we've demonstrated strong access to capital markets. We demonstrated in 2022, the ability to service our debt during a Bitcoin bear market as we continue to show, improve consistent leadership in this area, we'll start to see a better rating, too.

But I'll go to the next slide, and this is probably the most important point about getting a rating because we are now S&P rated, it gives us access to larger pools of capital than we had before, right? And the unrated credit market is about $2.8 trillion worldwide. Now we have access to what we call a high-yield rated, right? B- is in the high-yield category, which is a market that's about 3x the size of the existing market that we're in. And over time, our hope is if Bitcoin was to be treated as a true capital on our balance sheet that we would be considered an investment-grade rated company. And when we get to that point, we would be able to access a market that's 11x what it is today.

So, in summary, on the S&P rating, I think it's a good starting point, and it's important that we're rated. And I think an agency like a credit agency like S&P validates our company, starts to validate Bitcoin as an asset class, and it's a good starting point for us.

The other part of S&P, so their index business has also started to embrace crypto, right? The S&P 500 has in successive quarters, added Coinbase, then Block, then Robinhood to their index. And we now meet all of the criteria that's required to be in the S&P 500 Index. We're # 131 by market cap of U.S. publicly traded companies. And unlike the NASDAQ 100 that sets its criteria purely by market cap, S&P also has some other criteria. I have to be a U.S. company, U.S. listed, which we are. I have to have a minimum of $23 billion market cap, which we have and 250,000 shares traded each month for six months, which we have. You have to have a last quarter with positive earnings. We've had two now. And some of the last four quarters have to have positive earnings, which we also have.

So now that we meet all the criteria, the question we get often is why are we not included? We don't know exactly, right? This is an S&P 500 process that they don't publish exactly why someone gets added or not. But first of all, we just became eligible in the last quarter and eligibility doesn't mean immediate inclusion, and that's pretty typical. Many other highly successful companies, Tesla and the ones I mentioned here, Block and Robinhood were not included in their first quarter of eligibility. But we hope to access the index in $13 trillion of capital that tracks the S&P 500 at some point in time.

The other big development that's happened really just in the last three months with the passage of the GENIUS Act and with more and more government clarity on regulations related to Bitcoin and related digital assets is big banks further embracing crypto. Morgan Stanley has dropped their restrictions in which wealth clients can now own crypto funds. In fact, they can solicit Bitcoin-backed securities and including Bitcoin-backed ETFs, and they are recommending as much as, in some cases, 5% to 6% of clients' portfolios owning Bitcoin. They also underwrote our most recent offering, stretch. And as I mentioned earlier, gave us access to the wealth management channel.

Citibank recently launched coverage, the first, I'll call it, bulge bracket bank that's launched coverage on our equity, and they also provide now a price target. And they've announced that they're going to launch crypto custody services next year, which I think is going to be transformative in terms of major banks now custody Bitcoin and other digital assets. Societe Generale, which is a large bank in France, which became the first major bank to launch dollar peg stablecoins and even banks like JPMorgan now are allowing Bitcoin and Ether as collateral with their banks.

And I mentioned that Citi has launched coverage on strategy, and they've also given a Bitcoin price target, which is a major improvement. And you'll see here of all the banks that are covering us and all the research analysts that are covering us. There's an average price of Bitcoin for 2025 of $156,000, average price at the end of 2026 of $180,000. You'll also see here strong price targets and ratings on all of the banks that are covering.

So let me move to 2025 guidance and review the guidance that we provided last quarter and talk through some of the additional guidance that we'll provide this quarter. The first piece is I want to reaffirm the BTC guidance for 2025. This is all assuming a Bitcoin price of $150,000 at year-end, which is based off of the consensus targets that I just reviewed. We have a BTC yield target at the end of the year of 30% and a BTC gain -- dollar gain target of $20 billion. And we have activities underway to try to achieve those, which include capital raises and such.

As for our earnings guidance, I also want to reaffirm what we communicated three months ago, which is an operating income target of $34 billion, a net income target of $24 billion and an EPS target of $80 at the end of this year, again, all assuming a Bitcoin price of $150,000.

Stretch, which we just launched three months ago, I also want to reaffirm the guidance that we've given on how we think about the dividend rate. If the five-day VWAP of the price of stretch is above $101, we recommend a rate decrease or potentially a follow-on offering. If the 5-day VWAP is between $95 and $99, we'd recommend a 25 basis point rate increase to get the price -- to try to get the price of stretch within our target price range of $99 to $101. And if the five-day VWAP is below $95 at the end of the month, we would recommend a 50 basis point rate increase. And so let me show you what we've done so far since we've launched Stretch and what we will update today as far as our dividend for the next month. So as you recall, when we launched the product in July, we launched with a 9% dividend rate. We increased that to 10% in August. We increased it further to 10.25% in September. And today, we're announcing that effective November 1, we will increase another 25 basis points our dividend and we'll be at 10.5% on November 1 paid monthly.

The last guidance I want to talk through is something that's new to this group, which is what we're calling return of capital guidance. And Mike will talk about this a little bit more, but this is a pretty unique feature to all of our preferred equity, which is that the dividends are paid -- the dividends that are paid are taxed as a return of capital. And if it's tax as a return of capital, it means that it's tax deferred until you sell the underlying asset. And so if you hold on to the underlying asset, you can expect that you're paying essentially zero taxes on that. That compares to a qualified dividend, which is at a rate of anywhere between 20% and 35%, depending on the state you live in and the city that you live in, in the U.S. and compared it to an interest income, which is what you would pay on something like a money market or a bank account at 37% to 55%.

We call these ROC dividends. It's a pretty unique feature and one that I think is not as clear and it may be lost on folks. But when you invest in our preferreds, for the foreseeable future, you can expect ROC dividends. And so why do we have ROC dividends? It's fairly unique to our company, which is that we have negative taxable earnings and profits, which is a function of the business that we're in, and it's a function of our intent to buy and hold Bitcoin and not sell Bitcoin, where it's negative from a tax perspective and not engage in activities that will result in significantly positive taxable earnings and profits. And our guidance here is that we expect that this ROC treatment continues for the foreseeable future for 10 years or more, and we can impact that guidance, and we can impact our negative E&P with how we run our business.

So the summary here is that our preferred dividends are tax-free or tax deferred and that we expect that to continue for the foreseeable future. It could be 10 years, it could be more than that.

So, with that, I want to hand it over to our Executive Chairman, Michael Saylor.

Michael Saylor
Executive Chairman

Thank you, Phong, and thanks for joining us today. I'm really excited to talk to you about digital capital and digital credit.

So let's go to the first slide. The first point that I want to make is that Bitcoin has emerged as digital capital. What is digital capital? Digital gold. Capital is a long-term store of value, Bitcoin is a store of value. The U.S. government has embraced Bitcoin as a store of value, and that means every major cabinet member, and I'm showing them here. And of course, the decision that America is going to be the Bitcoin superpower is an endorsement along with the President's point that you don't ever sell your Bitcoin.

Let's go to the next slide. Wall Street has embraced Bitcoin as digital capital. Now you've got 1.5 million Bitcoin held by the spot ETFs, about $170 billion worth. The most successful ETF in the history of Wall Street is IBIT. And IBIT has explosively grown even in the past few months. The daily liquidity in IBIT is now approaching $4 billion or more a day. Open interest in BE has gone to more than $50 billion in open interest. And so this is wildly successful.

Next, public companies have embraced Bitcoin as digital capital. We were the first public holder of Bitcoin, then there were two, then there were four. About a year ago, there were 60. Now there are 200-plus publicly listed companies holding Bitcoin. That's more than 1 million Bitcoin, and it's about $116 billion in value. I've got a few metrics here on this slide that show just the scale of the Bitcoin market. It's a $2.3 trillion market cap. It's $58 billion of daily liquidity, $76 billion in BTC open interest in the derivatives market, and it's backed by 26 gigawatts of power. That's 26 full-on nuclear reactors. It's -- and the hash rate keeps going up. We're now up to 1,100 exahash. And you have 30% of all voters in the United States that are registered -- of the registered voters that are crypto holders. The industry crypto is $3.9 trillion, and there's 700 million crypto users and of course, 300 million Bitcoin holders. So this is a global movement at this point. Bitcoin is the capital asset at the center of the entire crypto industry. And it is traded on 1,000 exchanges.

Next. Now what do you do with digital gold? Well, what do you do with gold? You issue credit on gold. For 300 years, the Western world ran on gold-backed credit. Bitcoin is digital gold. What we've realized is that the killer application of digital capital is digital credit. And strategy enables a wide variety of securities based on that digital capital. What you can see here is that the baseline is IBIT. IBIT is digital capital in an ETF wrapper, and it's got a 53% annual -- 53% return on average for the past five years. And the volatility is 38% right now.

Now what we have done is created four digital credit instruments that strip the volatility and extract or distill the performance out of IBIT. So Strike's volatility is 28%, and it gives you a 9% effective yield and some upside. Stride's volatility is 16%. It gives you a 13% effective yield. Strife's volatility is 14%, and we extracted a 9% effective yield. And of course, what we're doing is we're extracting a certain type of risk or we're mitigating I'm stripping off a bunch of risk. We're extracting a yield. We're damping the volatility. And the largest piece or the greatest piece of financial engineering we've performed is Stretch, which has converted that 38% volatility into 8% and extracted that effective yield of 10%.

And of course, as you can see, since we damped the volatility, there is sort of a conservation of energy or a conservation of volatility in the thermodynamic universe. And so where does the volatility go? It goes to the Equity's So -- the volatility that we strip off of BTC accrues to MSTR, of course, the performance and the opportunity that we strip off of BTC also accrues to MSTR. So what you see here is a fairly straightforward financial engineering exercise. We are a structured finance company, and we are starting with a blob of high energy capital, long duration, highly volatile, high performance. We are engineering out different durations, different volatilities, different risk profiles, different performance profiles. We're even transforming it from the BTC currency into the USD or to different currencies. And that is the exercise.

Next. Now this chart shows the economic landscape we work in. Here, you see Bitcoin's performance of 53% over five years, almost double the MAG 7. You can see gold performed 15% a year. It's slightly edged out the S&P at 14%. S&P is the conventional cost of capital. Real estate is underperforming the S&P dramatically in this time frame, only up 6% a year. Money market instruments, those short duration treasuries in the U.S., on average, have provided 3% performance a year and mid-dated to long-dated bonds are minus 3%. Strategies equity is plus 83%. And of course, all of our financial engineering is based upon taking advantage of a lower cost of equity and a lower cost of credit and then using that in order to acquire Bitcoin, which then accrues to the benefit of the equity holders.

Let's go to the next slide. So let's look at our products, Strike. Strike is structured Bitcoin. It's convertible preferred. So it has some upside via the equity component at 33% of Strike is equity. It has some dividend, an 8% dividend at par right now an effective yield of 9.1%. And then Strike pays ROC dividends, which means they're tax deferred as you step down your basis. And so the tax equivalent adjusted yield is 21.6%.

How do you get to that? Well, you take the cost of strike, you subtract the equity component and then you look at the effective yield of the remainder and then you look at the tax adjusted effective yield and you end up getting to 21.6%. So this is a misunderstood security, but it's got very compelling offers because on one hand, it's an indefinite a perpetual duration call option on the stock. And it's also a perpetual dividend. So if you're a very long-term investor that wants the best of both worlds, some upside, some income. And if you want risk stripped away, well, we've got a BTC rating of 5.2%, which means that Bitcoin could fall by 80% and you would still be overcollateralized. If you bought Bitcoin and it fell by 80%, you lose 80% of your money. If you buy this and Bitcoin falls by 80%, you still keep your money, right? It's a principal protection.

And so down here at the bottom, I've got a table, and you can see the effective yield of the things that Strike competes against are 1% to 4%. And so this is a very unique thing. It's really -- it's higher yield, more upside, longer duration than alternative investments.

And let's go to the next slide. Stride is our second credit instrument. This is long-duration, high-yield credit. The effective yield is 12.5%. That makes the tax equivalent yield nearly 20%, 19.9%. It's still 4.8x over collateralized. So Bitcoin can still fall by 75%. You're still over collateralized. And it's got a duration of eight years, which is a Macaulay Duration. But really, what you're getting is you're getting the 10% dividend at par perpetually forever. And so if you compare it to the universe it competes against, the effective yield on most high-yield corporate bonds is 6%, and they're taxable, 6.2%. Leveraged loans are 6.8%. They're taxable as normal income. Preferred stock ETF, 6.2%; emerging market debt, 5.6%. So the effective yield of Stride is double, but the tax equivalent yield of Stride is triple. And so you get triple tax equivalent yield with more collateral coverage. This, again, is a misunderstood instrument, but if you're seeking maximum cash flows, right? And if you trust Bitcoin minimally and you trust the company, then this is a very interesting opportunity for you.

The next instrument is Strife, STRF. Well, that's long-duration senior credit. It's cumulative, and it's got more protections because there are penalties if the company were ever to suspend a dividend, but -- and it's also more highly collateralized. The BTC rating is 7.5x. So $7.50 of Bitcoin for every dollar of Strife outstanding. The effective yield is 9.1% because it trades above par. And the tax equivalent yield is 14.4%. So when you look at this against comparable assets, the effective yield is double, the tax equivalent yield is triple and the collateral coverage is 2x to 3x more. This has got a duration of 11 years. It's a longer duration. What that means is that if interest rates move up or move down, there's going to be more volatility on this. If you believe interest rates are going to die, then this is a great thing. You would like a long-duration instrument. If you believe that interest rates are going to go up, then that would be the opposite. You probably wouldn't.

Now let's go on to Stretch. Stretch is the highest degree of financial engineering we've engaged in because with Stretch, our goal was to strip the volatility, strip -- compress the duration, convert the BTC into a pure USD yield and then offer that to the investor. So, right now, Stretch is 10.4% effective yield, but that's a tax equivalent yield of 16%. It's just slightly under 6x over collateralized. And of course, it's the lowest volatility.

Our goal with Stretch is we want to give everybody something that's competitive with the money market that pays you 10.4%, that is tax deferred. If you walk down the street and you say to someone, do you want a convertible bond, not sure. Do you want a 20-year crypto bond? Not sure. Do you want a crypto junk bond? Not sure. Would you like a bank account to pay a 10% tax deferred? Yes. Yes, everybody wants a bank account to pay some 10% tax deferred, right? Why wouldn't you, right? And so this is -- to be clear, it's not a bank account. It's not even a money market.

But we are structuring it to compete with that source of funds. That's what we call a treasury credit. It's for corporate treasurers. It's for your family treasury. It's the money that you probably need to spend in the next 12, 24, 36 months. If you didn't need the money for four years or more, I would say you probably ought to go look at buying Bitcoin. If you don't need the money for a decade, you buy Bitcoin. It's a better deal. But if you need the money in four months or eight months or two years or you have 30% of your working capital that's stable. That's a treasury obligation. And right now, your options aren't great. So here, we're offering 10.4% effective yield, but 16% tax equivalent yield. If you look at bank accounts, they yield nothing. Money markets are 4% in the U.S. So this is 4x better, 4x better than the tax equivalent yield of a money market.

Now you'll note, it's more volatile, right? The money markets managed to get down to less than 1% or about approximately 1% volatility. We're still 8% volatility. And I think that's in some part because we're still seasoning. And so we are going to continue to work to get this volatility down below 8% to 7% to 6%. We got to 5% about a week ago. We don't know how low we can get it, but our goal is to make it the least volatile of our credit instruments.

Let's go to the next slide. Phong spoke about return of capital. The point that I want to make is ROC dividends have been around -- this is settled tax law since 1910. Return of capital has been around since 1910. You'll find hundreds of companies that have issued dividends that are return of capital. You'll find oil pipelines, natural gas companies, real estate companies, et cetera.

We just happen to have a very compelling business model. The treasury business model allows us to have much greater visibility to return of capital than if you were just a REIT or you were a gas pipeline or something. And so the difference really is it's 0% upfront dividend tax rate versus 20% to 30% or 30% to 55%. And if you got your money in a money market and you live in California or New York City, it's a pretty heavy tax load. And so presumably, New Yorkers or San Francisco dwellers, when they start to look at this, are going to find it to be pretty compelling. The fact that we expect this to continue for the next 10 years means that we're not just announcing that this quarter is a return of capital. We're expecting the next 40 quarters to be return of capital. And I think that's a pretty material thing.

Let's go to the next slide. Now all of those credit instruments have one impact. They amplify our Bitcoin exposure. So, right now, strategy has 11% leverage, 21% amplification, okay? Amplification is the leverage that comes from debt plus the improved performance that comes from equity. Our goal, our target as a company is to drive leverage to zero. When we equitize the convertible bonds and if we don't issue any more bonds and we don't intend to, Leverage will go from 11% to 9% to 7% to 5% to 3% to 1% to zero. So our leverage is going to 0. Our target for amplification is to drive the amplification to 30%. So we're going to drive amplification up and drive leverage down.

And of course, here, you can see on this chart, if we run at a 30% amplification level, what naturally happens is your 200,000 Satoshi per share become 560,000 Satoshi per share over 10 years. That's a BTC factor of 2.8. That means that we actually perform 2.8x better than an ETF. That is the source of the premium and the equity. That is the value that's being created by the -- the digital treasury model. And of course, the value creation is a function of the amplification. When you increase leverage, you increase risk. But when you increase amplification, you just increase value creation. So if we get to 30% amplification, then we may very well go to 35% or 40% amplification because we're doing it with digital credit and digital credit doesn't have the risk profile of debt.

Let's go to the next slide. We are at a historic point. We're kind of at an inflection point, we believe. Our multiple to NAV, mNAV has been trending down and has been trending down over time as the Bitcoin asset class matures, as the volatility decreases. The volatility, by the way, is decreasing in part because of the growth of companies like ours, the maturation of the Bitcoin treasury industry. It's decreasing because of the success of IBIT. It's decreasing because the derivatives market onshore has grown dramatically. The derivatives market in IBIT has gone from $10 billion to $50 billion. And so people are using those derivatives to damp volatility, and that's very good for the asset class. It's very good for the industry.

In the near term, it's resulted probably in some pressure on our mNAV. But we think that over time, as the credit investors start to understand the appeal of digital credit, they're going to want to buy more, and we're going to sell more and issue more credit. And as the equity investors start to appreciate the uniqueness of the Bitcoin treasury model and especially the uniqueness of our company and our ability to issue digital credit worldwide at scale, we think that, that's going to drive an appreciation of the equity.

Next slide. Why am I so enthusiastic about digital credit? Well, there are seven innovations in digital credit that make it better than traditional credit. So I'm going to take you through the seven things. First of all, traditional credit, like a mortgage. Well, it's built on a depreciating house or depreciating warehouse or a traditional credit, it's built on collateral that's a depreciating asset, a bunch of fiat currency, a corporate product, a corporate service, a corporate warehouse, a bunch of hardware, a data center full of NVIDIA chips that are depreciating with a four-year useful life. That is collateral, which is collapsing. It makes it hard to pay a higher yield when you have depreciating asset. But our collateral is Bitcoin, it's digital capital and Bitcoin is an appreciating asset. So whereas $10 billion of warehouses are most valuable the day they're built, $10 billion of Bitcoin is only going to get more valuable, not less valuable. And so that digital capital is the first big innovation.

Next. The second innovation is we're replacing traditional risk with digital risk. Traditional risk, it's opaque, it's heterogeneous. It's discrete. You own 8,700 houses or you own -- you're exposed to a portfolio of 47 junk bond issuers. And maybe they're fine, but then there's a tariff or there's a trade war or there's a competitive change or maybe there's a strike or maybe an airplane crashes or there's a COVID lockdown. Whenever you have these kind of conventional real-world issues, you have a discrete explosion of risk, a forest fire, an earthquake or a change in a political regime or a change in tax rates or change in customs duties. So traditional risk is opaque, it's heterogeneous, it's discrete. On the other hand, digital risk is transparent. It's homogeneous, it's continuous.

You can go to our website and we update the risk model every 15 seconds. And so it is completely continuous. We update the price of Bitcoin. We update the volatility of Bitcoin on a continuous basis. We update the BTC ratings. You can plug in your statistical models into them. And of course, all the risk is based upon your outlook of BTC ARR, BTC Vol, BTC price and BTC rating. So digital risk is something where you don't have to wait for a year for a credit rating agency to publish a new report. to tell you whether your favorite airline or your favorite restaurant chain is riskier or less risky. With digital risk, you can literally plug into the website and you can recalibrate and calculate your risk every 15 seconds on Saturday morning. And that's a big upgrade.

Now there's a third innovation in digital credit. Our third innovation is we don't just -- all credit is not created equal. We don't just issue debt. Debt is credit. Bank deposits are credit. When a bank takes your money, they're creating credit and that -- and your bank account pays you whatever they pay you. When you put money in a money market, it's credit. Of course, junk bonds, sovereign debt, mortgage-backed bonds, they're credit, but they're debt -- and debt and deposits are liabilities. They amplify risk. If there's a run on the bank, people withdraw their deposits, right, you're going to have a collapse of the entire banking system.

When the debt comes due, when your three-year note comes due, when you get to month 34, everybody goes crazy and loses their mind because the capital is getting called away from you, right? If you have a bad quarter in the 12th quarter and you've got four-year debt, you amplify risk that the equity collapses people go crazy. What we've done is use preferred equity. It's not debt. Sometimes people think, okay, well, it's a liability. It's equity. It's actually counted as preferred equity is equity on the balance sheet. It's not debt. It's an asset, not a liability. And so therefore, it mitigates risk.

How does it mitigate risk? Well, I mean, the first obvious way it mitigates risk is when you sell $1 billion of bonds, you have to pay them back in five years or seven years or three years. When you sell $1 billion of preferred stock, you never pay it back. So there's $1 billion of refinance risk that just goes away. The second way that it mitigates risk is that the dividends are approved by the Board. They're not coupons. You miss $1 million of coupon payments, you're in default. Whereas if you're short $1 million of a dividend payment, you can suspend $1 million, you're not in default. So you could think about preferred equity is permanent capital and shock absorbers. -- to the business model of the company. And therefore, digital credit based on preferred equity is dramatically better than digital credit or credit that's based upon debt or deposits.

The fourth innovation is we didn't just issue preferred equity. We issued perpetual preferred equity. Sometimes banks or issuers issue equity, which has got a three-year life or a five-year life or a refinance option or a call option or a put option. That creates some sort of refinance risk or withdrawal risk. But when you have a perpetual equity, it is permanent capital, right? Your bank might have $100 billion that's overnight money. Someone can take the $100 billion away from them. You have $100 billion of debt at your airline. It's going to be taken away from you in three to five years. When we have $100 billion of preferred equity, we have it forever, like forever 1,000 years. It just goes on and on and on.

Perpetual life. When you have permanent capital, you can make indefinite investments. We can buy Bitcoin to hold for 100 years if we have capital for 100 years. When you have a five-year junk bond, you can't make a decision that's going to -- the truth is you have to have decisions that are no longer than like two or three years, because you have to keep rolling them because of the refinance and the withdrawal risk. So the perpetual life of the instruments is the fourth big innovation.

The fifth big innovation is that we took these securities public. This is public credit. A lot of times, people sell their credit instruments via 144A offerings to a private market. It's like I sold it to 50 investors and they're traded over the counter. Those are illiquid. They're unbranded. Can anybody name the 17th tranche of bank credit sold by one of the large banks in the U.S. They have CUSIP numbers. They're traded on Bloomberg's between 37 counterparties, and they all know each other. So it's unbranded, it's illiquid. It's local. It's very difficult to buy it even if you wanted to buy it. You would need a professional money manager to even find it for you or buy it for you. When you do, there would be 300 basis point credits or bid-ask spreads, very big spreads. The thing traded last two weeks ago. That's the problem with private credit.

Public credit like STRC, it's liquid. I mean it traded nearly $100 million today in the market. It's branded. It's got a name, Stretch. It's global. You can buy it if you're in the U.K. from your retirement account. It's easy to access. You can buy it on Robinhood. You can buy it on Schwab. And so public securities become public brands. And if you're going to buy a credit instrument, what would you rather have a credit instrument that's traded by 12 funds in Italy that know each other? Or would you rather have a credit instrument that's held by tens or hundreds of thousands of investors worldwide that all refer to it by the name Stretch. And if it ever gets mispriced or it gets undervalued, they're going to leap in and they're going to put lots of money behind it.

When we did the IPO of Stretch, we priced it at $90. We said we're targeting par 100. There were individual investors that bought $250 million of that instrument, $250 million, right? The value of a public security, a public credit instrument is if someone goes wacky, crazy and decides they want to misprice it, there are people that will walk in and they'll buy $50 million or $100 million or $500 million to fix the market because they can. That does not happen in private credit markets. And so public branded global securities are just better.

Let's go to the next innovation. Digital creation. Ask yourself, how long does it take for a bank to create $1 billion worth of home mortgages? How long does it take to issue a 1,000 $1 million loans? It's very difficult. It's very -- it's slow, it's expensive, it's labor-intensive. So the creation of traditional credit is very hard. The reason that you have banks with 37 floor buildings that have 27,000 people in them is because the creation of credit is expensive and difficult. On the other hand, we can create $1 million of credit, $10 million of credit, $100 million of credit or $1 billion of credit in 60 seconds on any given trading day. It's all automated. It's efficient, it's instant.

So digital creation makes this completely scalable, right? We have a very scalable business model. And you can understand why if someone wanted to buy $10 billion of commercial credit backed by airplanes, it's kind of hard to create the airplanes to back the $10 billion. You can't just create the airplanes in 60 seconds. But we can buy $10 billion of Bitcoin to back $10 billion of digital credit, and we can do it contemporaneous with the demand. So that's the sixth advantage of digital credit.

Let's go to the last point. The last point is traditional credit is taxable, whether it's fully taxable as a debt instrument or it's partially taxable as qualified dividend. Digital credit is tax deferred income, right? We pay ROC dividends. We pay ROC dividends because of the business model, because we have digital capital as the underlying asset because we have a digital treasury company and a digital treasury company business model, we pay ROC dividends and ROC dividends are a profound competitive advantage for the credit issuer and for the credit investor.

Let's go on. Next slide. Here, you can see the value of the Bitcoin treasury model. We have created a flywheel. It's a scalable, tax-efficient fixed income generator. You issue digital equity and digital credit that's tax deferred. We pay dividends on that credit. They're tax deferred. We purchase Bitcoin with those proceeds, and we hold it definitely, that's tax deferred, right? So it's a triple tax deferred business model, scalable, new, never been seen in the history of the capital markets. That's why it will take people a while to get their head around it, but it really is a beautiful instrument once you understand it.

Let's go to the next slide. This digital treasury model allows us to create a digital credit factory. If you look at the company, what we're doing is we're manufacturing USD yield for credit investors. And we're delivering them that yield in the form of ROC dividends. So we're generating tax deferred dividend yields in USD, and they're giving us capital. We are then buying Bitcoin with that capital. So we are funding the crypto economy. So the crypto economy is the 750 million people that are growing by millions every day that believe in pure global finance and they're engaged in everything under the sun and 1,000 exchanges. So we fund that economy, and they return to us Bitcoin and Bitcoin is 121 million of all of the capital in that economy. And so the credit investors get their yield, we get our Bitcoin and then we're shipping and delivering BTC yield to the equity investors.

So the equity investors want to outperform Bitcoin. And so the equity investors get amplified BTC exposure, which you can quantify via BTC yield. The credit investors, they get their USD yield. The equity investors, they're getting tax deferred growth. The credit investors get tax-deferred dividends. It all creates a very powerful feedback loop. And our long-term forecast is Bitcoin outperforms the S&P. I expect it will go up 30% over a year for the next 20 years. So we're generating BTC NAV growth, and we're generating operating income, and that is tax deferred. And so it's a very powerful business model once you understand it.

Let's go to the next slide. If you want to quantify ROC dividends a little bit better, if you actually have a $100 instrument, $100 credit instrument that pays you 10% at par, if you reinvest those dividends every quarter and it's a taxable dividend or it's a taxable coupon at 37% tax rate, and that's what a bond would be or a money market or a corporate bond or a junk bond, you're going to have $187 at the end of the 10 years. If you get that payment in a qualified dividend and you pay a 20% tax rate, you're going to have $221 at the end of the 10 years, so it's 18% more. And of course, if you receive those dividends as ROC dividends and reinvest the ROC dividends every quarter for 10 years, you're going to end up with $269 at the end of the period, that's 44% more. So, clearly, ROC dividends are compelling for the investor, and they get more compelling as you live in a higher tax jurisdiction. And as the tax rates go up, they get even more compelling.

Let's go to the next slide. So digital credit opportunities, how do you break this down?

Next. This is Stretch versus every other credit instrument in the United States on average. What you can see is stretch is offering 16.5% tax equivalent yield. The hottest thing in traditional credit is private credit, it's 7.6%. Investment-grade bonds, 4.7%; money markets, 4.1%; commercial paper, 3.9%, your bank account, 40 basis points. So what you can see is stretch is offering more than double anything in the traditional credit market, but it looks sort of like 4x better in the U.S.

Let's think about all the digital credit instruments. What you see here is that digital credit is simply superior to conventional credit. Like the worst instrument or the lowest yielding instrument we have, STRF, Strife, has a tax equivalent yield of 14.4%. It's double the best thing in the traditional credit market. Stretch is quadruple. Stride is 5x what you'll get from a money market and Strike is even higher after you adjust for the equity component. So you can see these numbers are off the charts, and it's going to take a while for credit investors and for the market in general to adjust and digest this.

But we believe that digital credit is the killer app of digital capital. And we believe that the most compelling business model is a digital treasury company built on digital capital issuing digital credit, and this chart shows you why. Now this is the U.S. The U.S. has the highest risk-free rates in the Western world.

So let's look at the next chart. What I'm showing you here is the stretch rate, it's our short duration sort of one-month adjusting credit instrument versus the one -month rate for the U.S. dollar. And then let's look at the currency in Australia, it's 3.5%. Canadian one -month rate is 2.7%; Korean won, 2.5%; European 1.9% and falling, Singapore, 1.4%, JPY, the yen is 50 basis points, and the Swiss franc is negative. So what you might take away from this is that we have an opportunity not just in the U.S., but in the Middle East, in Great Britain, in Australia , in Canada, in Korea and everywhere in Europe, in Singapore, in Japan and in Switzerland. And we're studying each of these markets, and we're thinking very hard because we can create a digital credit instrument in Great British pounds or in Canadian or in euros or in Swiss francs. So we create the currency we want. We put the appropriate amount of risk on it. We strip away the duration and then we start selling pure yield. That is the compelling use case.

And so are we on a mission? Yes. We're on a mission. We're on a mission to basically give everybody a bank account that yields 10% or in this case, a money market that yields 16.5% tax equivalent, right? We want to change people's view toward money, change their view toward credit. And it's not very complicated to figure out why you might want to do it. And I don't think it will be complicated for people to figure out why they might want to own these instruments.

Next slide. So let me just end with an observation. We're in the business of creating digital equity by harnessing digital capital and using the digital capital to create digital credit instruments. So the equity, MSTR is digital equity. If you want amplified BTC because you kind of want enhanced exposure to digital capital and you want exposure to digital credit, then you would buy the equity. The price you'll pay is 62 vol. It will be very volatile.

Now the next option you have is Bitcoin. And so let's look at that. If what you want is to strip away the counterparty risk and the currency risk, right? And you want a long-term store value, you don't buy the equity, you buy BTC, and that's 42 vol. Now what if you want a mixture of upside and quarterly income, you would buy Strike, 28 vol. If you just want to maximize your cash flows, then you would buy STRD, 16 vol. And if your idea is you want the highest seniority and the greatest degree of investor protection, then you would go to Strife and you get a lower vol, 14 vol. And then the final option, of course, is if you're looking for stability, simplicity and minimal volatility, you go to a treasury credit instrument, which is STRC, Stretch.

And when you put all these things on the same chart, I think it becomes pretty clear what we're doing and why we're doing it. And every one of these instruments is aimed at a different type of investor. we couldn't create the credit without the equity and without the capital. And of course, they're all reflexive, right? The more credit we sell, the better it is for BTC and for the equity. And as the equity appreciates, that's good for the credit, and that's good for BTC. And as Bitcoin appreciates, that's good for the credit, that's good for the equity.

So it's a very elegant business. We're very blessed and we feel honored to have the opportunity and couldn't be more excited about it.

Let's go to the next slide. So what I would say here is if you're not sure what you want, and you've listened to me so far, then you want Stretch, right? For those people that aren't sure what they think about Bitcoin or how they feel about the company or digital credit or anything, right? The simplest idea is 10.5% dividends paid monthly for those who like money. It's just that simple. You like money, you trust the company, but you don't understand anything else, you collect 10.5% dividends, they're tax deferred. They're paid monthly. Tell your friends.

And I'll just end with our last slide, which is our principles, and I want to remind everybody, our principles are to buy Bitcoin, hold Bitcoin treat all our investors with respect, prioritize the equity, generate positive yield, innovate with fixed income securities, maintain a healthy, robust balance sheet, promote global adoption of BTC as a treasury reserve asset. And I want to thank everybody for your time and also for your support. We couldn't do it without you. Thank you.