Murphy Oil Corporation (MUR) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Atif Riaz - VP of Investor Relations & Treasurer
Eric Hambly - President, CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Paul Cheng - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Carlos Andres E. Escalante - Wolfe Research, LLC
Neil Mehta - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Charles Meade - Johnson Rice & Company, L.L.C., Research Division
Christopher Baker - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Leo Mariani - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Timothy Rezvan - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Phillip Jungwirth - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Wei Jiang - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Thursday, January 29, 2026. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to Atif Riaz, Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer. Please go ahead.

Atif Riaz
VP of Investor Relations & Treasurer

Thank you, Joelle. Good morning, and welcome to our fourth quarter 2025 earnings conference call. Joining me today are Eric Hambly, President and CEO; Tom Mireles, Executive Vice President and CFO; and Chris Lorino, Senior Vice President, Operations.

Yesterday after market close, we issued our fourth quarter earnings release, a slide presentation and a stockholder update. These documents can be found on Murphy's website, and we will reference them today throughout our call.

As a reminder, today's call contains forward-looking statements as defined under U.S. securities laws. No assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained. A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ. For further discussion of risk factors, please refer to our most recent annual report filed with the SEC. Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as required by law.

Throughout today's call, production numbers, reserves and financial amounts are adjusted to exclude noncontrolling interest in the Gulf of America.

I will now turn the call over to Eric for opening remarks.

Eric Hambly
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Atif, and thank you, everyone, for joining us. I trust you have reviewed my quarterly stockholder update released yesterday, which covers our fourth quarter results, highlights for 2025 and our detailed plans for 2026.

This morning, I will begin by sharing some key insights about our performance and then focus primarily on the year ahead. Before we dive in, I want to thank our employees. Their hard work and commitment made last year's impressive exploration and operational successes possible.

Looking back, 2025 was underpinned by strong execution across our assets despite a challenging commodity price environment. Our production, both for the fourth quarter and full year exceeded guidance as we delivered some of the best performing onshore wells in company history and maintained strong uptime at our key offshore facilities.

We also managed costs closely, reducing lease operating expenses by 20% year-over-year and capital expenditures below guidance, partly due to realized efficiency gains in our Eagle Ford Shale program.

Exploration and appraisal results were certainly the highlights of 2025 as we advanced 4 exploration and appraisal wells across 3 continents in the fourth quarter alone. Knowing that many of you were keenly anticipating the results from these wells, we released updates as they became available.

We reported a highly successful appraisal result at Hai Su Vang, Golden Sea Lion field, oil discoveries at both of our exploration wells in the Gulf of America and unfortunately, a dry hole at Civette in Côte d'Ivoire. Although the results for Civette were disappointing, we remain optimistic about the next 2 prospects in the program, Caracal and Bubale, as all 3 wells were strategically chosen to target independent plays.

In Vietnam, the Hai Su Vang, Golden Sea Lion appraisal found 429 feet of net oil pay without encountering the oil-water contact, indicating a resource that is significantly above our initial midpoint of 170 million barrels of oil equivalents.

Although we're continuing the appraisal campaign with 2 additional wells, results to date suggest a significant new growth business for Murphy in Vietnam. To put that into context, our exploration results in Vietnam will help us build a business that by the early 2030s will surpass the scale of our current Eagle Ford Shale operations. This outcome exemplifies the long-term organic value creation capability that makes us unique.

In 2026, we will strategically invest in development, exploration and appraisal activities in the Gulf of America, Vietnam and Côte d'Ivoire that will grow our portfolio and enhance shareholder value in the mid- to long term.

Let's be upfront. We do not expect 2026 to be without its challenges. We're all aware of the unpredictable market environment and softening commodity prices. However, at Murphy, we spent the last few years positioning the company to withstand a downturn. So this year is about making intentional strategic investments that set the groundwork for growth far beyond the next few quarters, something that differentiates us from our peers.

From an operational perspective, our 2026 net production will be lower at 171,000 barrels of oil equivalents per day versus last year's 182,000 barrels of oil equivalents per day. Most of that production decrease is Tupper Montney natural gas volumes, driven in part by higher gas prices and therefore, higher royalties. So the cash flow impact will be muted.

It's noteworthy that we'll maintain our Eagle Ford Shale production flat with 25% less capital spend this year. Additionally, our lease operating expenses will stay in line with the $10 to $12 per barrel range that we have previously guided.

We continue our focused exploration and appraisal program in the first half of 2026 with 2 appraisal wells in Vietnam's Hai Su Vang, Golden Sea Lion field, and 2 exploration wells in Côte d'Ivoire. In addition, as I mentioned in my stockholder update, we have expanded our exploration portfolio with an entry into offshore Morocco and acquisition of 7 new blocks in the Gulf of America. Bid results are pending for another 7 blocks in the Gulf of America, where we were the apparent high bidder in the December 2025 lease sale.

With the industry's average reserve life at 12 years and Tier 1 shale inventories declining, our proactive approach to securing new blocks in diverse basins reinforces our exploration pipeline, demonstrates our unique ability to partner globally and provides optionality for sustained growth in the decades ahead.

Through all this, our balance sheet remains solid with a low leverage ratio and over $2 billion in liquidity. Our eye is on the long game. However, we have the ability -- we have the flexibility to adjust, if necessary, to protect our balance sheet. If we see an extended period of low commodity prices, we're ready to tighten the purse strings and pull back on capital spending.

To sum it up, following a successful 2025, marked by robust operational execution, ongoing financial discipline and an outstanding 80% success rate in our exploration efforts, we view 2026 as a year to invest in future growth and long-term shareholder value. We're navigating uncertainty by investing with intention, sharpening our operations and setting up Murphy for sustainable organic growth.

With that, we're now ready to take your questions.

