Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. (NCLH) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Sarah Inmon - Head of Investor Relations & Corporate Communications
Harry Sommer - President, CEO & Director
Mark Kempa - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Elizabeth Dove - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Steven Wieczynski - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Conor Cunningham - Melius Research LLC
Benjamin Chaiken - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Vince Ciepiel - Cleveland Research Company LLC
Charles Scholes - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Andrew Didora - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. Welcome to Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Sherry, and I will be your operator. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, all participants, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Sarah Inmon. Ms. Inmon, please proceed.

Sarah Inmon
Head of Investor Relations & Corporate Communications

Thank you, Sherry, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us for our third quarter 2025 earnings call. I'm joined today by Harry Sommer, President and CEO of Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings; and Mark Kempa, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. As a reminder, this conference call is being simultaneously webcast on the company's Investor Relations website. We will be referring to a slide presentation during the call, which can also be found on our website. Both the conference call and presentation will be available for replay for 30 days following today's call.

Before we begin, I would like to cover a few items. Our press release with third quarter 2025 results was issued this morning and is also available on our IR website. This call includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from such statements. These statements should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statement contained in our earnings release.

Our comments may also reference non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and other associated disclosures are contained in our earnings release and presentation. Unless otherwise noted, all references to 2025 net yields and adjusted net cruise costs excluding fuel per capacity day are on a constant currency basis and comparisons are to the same period in 2024.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to our CEO, Harry Sommer. Harry?

Harry Sommer
President, CEO & Director

Well, thank you, Sarah, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our third quarter 2025 earnings call. I'll begin my remarks today with a discussion of the third quarter results and recent booking pace, and we'll then get into some recent highlights on our 3 brands and strategy. I'll then provide some brief comments on how 2026 is shaping up before handing the call over to Mark, who will provide a deeper dive into our financial performance and outlook. So to dive right in, I am pleased to report another record quarter with the results that met or exceeded guidance across all metrics. As a result, we are reiterating our full year adjusted EBITDA guidance and raising our guidance for adjusted EPS.

Our performance this quarter was driven by solid customer demand, which drove load factors higher, reflecting the continued strength of our brands and the execution of our charting the course strategy. As previously stated, we remain committed to balancing return on investment with return on experience, delivering exceptional vacations, driving sustainable financial performance and strengthening our balance sheet.

Now delving a bit more into the details of our third quarter results shown on Slide 4, we achieved another quarter of strong performance and solid execution across the business. We met or exceeded guidance we provided in July and delivered the highest quarterly revenue in our company's history. Load Factor finished ahead of expectations at 106.4% driven by stronger-than-anticipated demand from families, particularly at the NCL brand, resulting in net yield growth of 1.5%. Costs were essentially flat year-over-year, which resulted in adjusted EBITDA of approximately $1 billion, a milestone achieved for the first time in company history.

As a result, our trailing 12-month adjusted operational EBITDA margin reached 36.7%, an improvement of 220 basis points from last year and another meaningful step towards achieving our charting the course margin target. Finally, adjusted EPS came in at $1.20, exceeded guidance by $0.06.

Turning now to recent demand. Bookings in the third quarter marked the strongest third quarter bookings in company history with bookings up over 20% from last year. With this trend continuing into October, all collectively driven by strong demand, not only for short Caribbean sailings this winter, but also for our luxury brands. These results not only underscore the strength of today's demand but also provides a solid foundation for growth in the quarters ahead. Of course, there are other highlights in this eventful quarter that I would like to share.

First, on the financial side, which Mark will cover in more detail, we completed a multifaceted capital market transaction that, among other benefits, reduced our share outstanding on a fully diluted basis by more than $38 million or over 7%, materially improving our adjusted EPS. On the guest experience side, we introduced several enhancements, including our new tri-branded loyalty recognition program, which I'll discuss later, and the launch of an enhanced website for the NCL brand.

The new site is already delivering results with faster performance, better guest experience and higher conversion rates, resulting in increased bookings. We have also made it easier for guests to personalize their vacation with more targeted pre-cruise offerings. For example, we are now promoting high-value onboard products such as Vibe Beach Club passes, drinks and dining packages, streaming WiFi, spa treatments and short excursions through personalized e-mails and push notifications. Pre-cruise sales at our all-time high levels, which drives higher onboard revenue and higher guest satisfaction and repeat rates.

On the sustainability front, we recently announced a landmark agreement with Spain's Repsol for supplying renewable marine fuels at the Port of Barcelona. This 8-year agreement starts this upcoming European season and is a first-of-a-kind partnership in the industry, underscoring our sale and sustained commitment. This agreement is a great example of cross-industry collaboration that could unlock meaningful progress and secure long-term access to renewable marine fuel in Europe.

Now I'd like to take a few minutes to discuss the high-level strategies we're executing across our 3 brands, which are summarized on Slide 5. These strategies are designed to ensure we continue delivering exceptional experiences for our guests, while advancing our charting the course targets and creating long-term value for our shareholders. At Norwegian Cruise Line, our focus is enhancing the family appeal and experience. At Oceania Cruises, we're working to firmly position the brand within the luxury sector. And at Regent Seven Seas Cruises, we're focused on maintaining its well-earned reputation as the pinnacle of ultra-luxury cruising.

Moving to Slide 6. I'll dive into the strategic evolution underway at Norwegian Cruise Line. This is a transformation that has been underway for several months and is now accelerating with sharpened focus under the brand's new leadership including a new Chief Commercial Officer and a new Chief Marketing Officer with a robust search for a world-class leader to head the NCL brand well underway. As part of this evolution, the brand is executing a focused 3-part commercial strategy to drive yields and profitability higher over the next year and into the future.

First, we're focusing more on families as a core demographic. We're building brand familiarity through our short Caribbean sailings, which give guests -- which give more guests, particularly families, a chance to experience our amazing product. That exposure helps build loyalty and creates a pipeline of repeat guests for the future. Over time, this will increasingly support one of our key priorities, boosting Load Factors. We are working diligently to attract more families to the brand to experience everything Norwegian has to offer, both onboard and other destinations, particularly our upgraded private island Great Stirrup Cay and through enhanced onboard offering geared towards families.

Second, we're strengthening our brand positioning and marketing. To reach the broader family market, NCL is developing a refreshed brand campaign designed to elevate awareness and strengthen emotional connection, which we should launch in early 2026. Alongside that, we're optimizing our marketing mix and spend to ensure we're getting the best possible return on every marketing dollar, creating efficiencies throughout 2026.

Lastly, we're elevating the guest experience. We are pleased to reiterate that our previously announced enhancements at Great Stirrup Cay are all on track to open around the holidays, including the new multi-ship pier, welcome center, tram system, an expansive 28,000 square-foot heated pool, the size of an entire cruise ship with a swim-up bar, kids flash zones, 5 shore club, new dining and beverage outlet and dozens of new cabanas.

The upcoming summer '26 launch of the Great Tides Water Park will mark another milestone moment for the brand, spanning nearly 6 acres, the water park will feature 19 thrilling water slides, a dynamic river, a huge kids splash zone, a 10- and 15-foot tall cliff jump and an innovative jet karts attraction. It will be the perfect family-friendly addition to our already exceptional island amenities, which includes Silver Cove, and exclusive retreat offering magnificent villas and a beach club. And that's just the additions at Great Stirrup Cay.

We're also looking ahead to enhancements across other destinations in our portfolio. In addition, we are expanding our kids and family programming with improved activities and entertainment, ensuring engaging experiences for guests of all ages. At the core of this approach is our ambition to be the brand of choice in the contemporary space for both seasoned travelers and premium families, while maximizing profitability. Future travel intent, current bookings, guest satisfaction scores and future onboard cruise sales are all at or near record levels, clear signs that our strategy is working.

We continue to actively balance between load factor and price with the goal of optimizing net yield, margins and most importantly, profitability.

Now turning to Slide 7. This strategy is already leading to tangible results. Our increased Caribbean presence, additional short sailings, which capitalize on demand for closer to home family vacations and continued investment in our private island destinations are already driving higher Load Factors. The fourth quarter marks the first period where we're truly seeing the shift in strategy come to fruition.

In Q4 of this year, we will have the highest mix of short sailings since 2019, reflecting our deliberate move to rebalance Norwegian's deployment towards closer to home itineraries. This approach expands our reach, appealing to a broader mix of guests, particularly premium families and unit cruise travelers, while allowing us to better leverage our private island investments. In Q4, short sailings capacity is increasing over 80% versus prior year. And our Caribbean deployment is moving to over 50% of our total capacity. As a result, we now expect Load Factors to improve over 100 basis points year-over-year to nearly 102%.

Now I know many of you will probably ask why our fourth quarter yield guidance has changed from our prior implied guide to growth of 3.5% to 4%. So let me get ahead of that question. As mentioned earlier, we are very focused on Load Factor and increasing brand visibility through our Caribbean product. It has been quite some time since we've had this level of short sailings in our deployment and demand has exceeded our expectations. In the fourth quarter, our Caribbean short sailings are performing quite well, particularly among our targeted family demographic, driving Load Factors higher than we had forecasted.

On our Caribbean sailings, we are seeing more families, which means more children in each cabin. We expect core pricing for the first and seconds to be well up. The addition of child as third and fourth in the cabin, however, will naturally dilute blended pricing. The end result remains strong yield growth and strong margin expansion. This is an intentional planned trade-off to drive margins and profitability higher in both the short- and long-term. These early results from our increased short sailing Caribbean deployment are encouraging and reinforce our confidence in the strategy.

Now looking ahead, we expect this dynamic to accelerate in the first quarter of 2026 with Load Factor projected to be 200 to 300 basis points higher year-over-year, driven by a meaningful 40% increase in short sailings. Additionally, this will coincide with the soft opening of Great Stirrup Cay new amenities around the holidays, while the more meaningful enhancements will be coming when Great Tides Water Park opens later in summer 2026. When we return next winter, we'll have the full benefit of the new amenities at Great Stirrup Cay and the word of mouth from thousands and thousands of satisfied guests, which will further strengthen performance.

Moving on to Slide 8. We're confident this positive momentum will continue throughout 2026 with Load Factors building on 2025 levels and returning to, if not exceeding, 2024 levels, reaching at least 105%. This is sustained progress driven by this new deployment strategy. Now I've spoken a bit about the Norwegian brand, and now I want to turn to our luxury portfolio, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises on Slide 9. The opportunity we're seeing in luxury cruising has never been stronger. Global luxury spending continues to expand with experiences ranking as the fastest-growing segment in 2024.

Both Oceania and Regent are perfectly positioned to capture this demand. Oceania delivers luxury by choice, offering guests elevated personalized experiences with exceptional culinary offerings, while Regent is the pinnacle of the ultra-luxury all-inclusive luxury segments. To fully capitalize on this opportunity, we brought back Jason Montague earlier this year to lead both brands and drive the next phase of growth.

Turning to Slide 10, you can see the tangible progress already underway. The first thing Jason did was optimize the organization, ensuring we have the right leadership structure and the right people in the right roles to support long-term growth. Next, he's been deeply engaged in our fleet management program, including our pipeline of 6 luxury ships, overseeing the design and launch of Oceania Allura and Regent Seven Seas Prestige, both of which will set new standards for design, experience and efficiency. He has also been very focused on elevating our existing fleet and Seven Seas Mariner is the latest example of that commitment.

The ship entered dry dock just yesterday, where we're undertaking a full transformation, refreshing suites, reimagining public spaces and introducing an enhanced pool grill featuring a new wood-fired pizzeria concept for relaxed alfresco dining. Seven Seas Voyager will be undergoing a similar revitalization when she enters dry dock next year. Coupled with our 3 new vessels and the upcoming Prestige delivering in 2026, we truly will have the world's most luxurious fleet.

Finally, Jason has been laser-focused on enhancing brand positioning and marketing across both brands, ensuring that Oceania is fully recognized in the luxury space, while Regent maintains its place as the pinnacle of ultra-luxury cruising. We know we have 2 extraordinary luxury products. Now it's about telling these brand stories more powerfully and consistently in the market. I want to take a moment to recognize Jason and the entire luxury team, they're doing an outstanding job executing on this strategy, elevating both Regent and Oceania and positioning our luxury portfolio as a key growth driver for 2026 and beyond.

Finally, moving to our loyalty program on Slide 11. I'm thrilled to share how we're taking guest recognition to the next level. We recently launched our new loyalty status honoring program, allowing members of Latitudes Rewards, Oceania Club and the Seven Seas Society to have their tier status honored across all 3 of our award-winning brands. Our guests will now be able to enjoy the loyalty perks they've earned, no matter which of our brands they choose to sail. It's a major step forward that makes it easier than ever to explore the world within our NCLH family.

This change will also encourage our top guests to try our other brands. It's really about deepening our connection with our most loyal guests, rewarding their commitments and giving them even more ways to vacation better and experience more. And while it's early, the preliminary results of this program have well exceeded our expectations, proving again the power of our brands.

And with that, I'll be happy to turn the call over to Mark.

Mark Kempa
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Harry, and good morning, everyone. Let me start with our third quarter results highlighted on Slide 12. We delivered another strong quarter, exceeding or meeting guidance across all metrics. Occupancy came in at 106.4%, nearly 100 basis points above guidance, driven by strong family demand across all itineraries. Net yields grew 1.5%, in line with guidance, fueled by strong pricing growth of over 3%.

On the cost side, adjusted net cruise cost ex fuel was down 0.1 point, coming in slightly better than expected as our cost control efforts continue to bear fruit. As a result of better-than-expected fuel consumption, adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $1.019 billion, above our guidance of $1.015 billion. Adjusted net income came in at $596 million. Adjusted EPS came in $0.06 ahead of guidance at $1.20. Overall, this was a solid quarter, consistent with our expectations.

Moving on to fourth quarter and full year guidance on Slide 13. We expect occupancy to be approximately 101.9% in the quarter, roughly 100 basis points above the prior year and our previous implied guidance. As Harry mentioned, we are very focused on Load Factor and brand visibility at the Norwegian brand, and we are encouraged by the progress we have made this quarter as family demand surpassed our initial expectations driving occupancy higher.

I want to reiterate that we continue to balance Load Factor and price, recognizing the natural give and take between the two. As we attract more families, we are seeing more third and fourth guests in a cabin. And naturally, those guests come in at a lower price point, which has a modest impact on overall pricing. As a result of this dynamic in the fourth quarter, we expect net yield to grow approximately 3.5% to 4% reflecting our deliberate decision to welcome more families, while taking a slight trade-off on price, which remains healthy at nearly 3% growth. As a result, full year net yield growth expectations have been adjusted slightly to 2.4% to 2.5% for the year.

Turning to cost in the fourth quarter. Adjusted net cruise cost ex fuel is expected to be essentially flat, up only 50 basis points year-over-year. This is slightly higher than our prior implied guidance for the quarter, primarily due to the timing of certain expenses.

As a result, for the full year, we now expect cost to increase 75 basis points, well below inflation. The second year in a row, we have been able to achieve this strong cost control, all while achieving record guest satisfaction scores and repeat rates. We expect fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA to be approximately $555 million and adjusted EPS to be $0.27. As a result, we are reiterating our full year adjusted EBITDA guidance at $2.72 billion and increasing our full year adjusted EPS guidance to $2.10, which represents almost a 19% increase year-over-year.

Moving on to Slide 14. I want to take a moment to highlight the strong progress we've made on our cost savings program. Back at our Investor Day in May 2024, we set a bold goal to achieve more than $300 million in savings, and we remain fully on track to deliver on that commitment. In 2024, we realized over $100 million in savings, and we're on pace for another $100 million plus in 2025 which has allowed us to limit net cruise cost growth to only about 3/4 of 1%.

We are carrying this culture of cost discipline into 2026, and we have full line of sight to achieving at least another $100 million in savings next year, keeping our unit cost growth well below the rate of inflation, while continuing to deliver an exceptional guest experience. These cost savings have been a major driver of our continued margin expansion, as you can see on Slide 15. Our adjusted operational EBITDA margin has increased by roughly 600 basis points since year-end 2023, and we remain on track to reach approximately 37% by the end of this year.

Looking ahead to 2026, we expect this positive momentum to continue supported by our proven algorithm of low- to mid-single-digit yield growth and sub-inflationary cost growth. The strategic initiatives Harry outlined earlier are central to this plan, from bringing more families to the Norwegian brand and increasing Load Factor, to refreshing our brand and marketing, and the launching of new amenities at Great Stirrup Cay this year around the holidays and the new water park next year.

At the same time, our luxury brands continue to benefit from strong demand trends and their truly best-in-class offerings. Oceania is building momentum as we position it squarely in the luxury space, and Regent remains the clear leader in ultra-luxury cruising, delivering an unmatched product and service experience. I'm confident that all of these efforts driving both the top and bottom line will enable us to further expand margins and achieve our approximately 39% target next year.

Turning to Slide 16. You can see our debt maturity profile, which has been extended and strengthened following our recent capital markets activity. In September, we successfully completed a series of strategic transactions that significantly enhanced our financial flexibility. We refinanced the majority of our 2027 exchangeable notes extending our maturity profile, and reduced our shares outstanding on a fully diluted basis by approximately 38 million shares, all while remaining essentially net leverage neutral.

In addition, we refinanced approximately $2 billion of debt, including the replacement of about $1.8 billion of secured debt to unsecured. As a result, we have now fully eliminated all secured notes from our capital structure. These actions underscore our continued focus on optimizing our balance sheet, improving collateral utilization and positioning the company for sustainable long-term growth.

Turning to net leverage on Slide 17. I want to emphasize that reducing leverage remains our top financial priority. In the third quarter, net leverage increased slightly from the second quarter to 5.4x from 5.3x. This modest uptick reflects the delivery of Oceania Allura where we took on the associated debt but have not yet annualized the EBITDA contribution from the ship. We now expect to end the year at approximately 5.3x. And excluding the impact of noncash foreign exchange revaluation on our euro-denominated debt related to Norwegian Aqua and Allura -- and Oceania Allura, our leverage would end the year at approximately 5.2x.

In a year when we've taken delivery of 2 new vessels, keeping leverage flat is a notable accomplishment and positions us well to achieve our 2026 target of reaching the mid-4x range.

Wrapping up, our solid performance so far this year and the ongoing benefits from our cost initiatives reflect meaningful progress on our top financial priorities, deleveraging, expanding margins and fortifying the balance sheet.

I'll hand the call back over to Harry to close out the call.

Harry Sommer
President, CEO & Director

Well, thank you, Mark. Now looking at Slide 18, I'd like to once again highlight the significant progress we're making towards our key charting the course financial targets. By year-end 2025, we expect adjusted operational EBITDA margin to expand by more than 600 basis points versus 2023. Adjusted EPS to grow nearly threefold, net leverage to decline by 2 full turns and adjusted ROIC to continue its upward trajectory. I'm incredibly proud of what we've accomplished so far in 2025.

Looking ahead, 2026 is shaping up to be another outstanding year with capacity set to grow approximately 7% as the Regent Luna and Seven Seas Prestige join the fleet, we expect to see continued strength across all 3 brands. At Norwegian, we anticipate even more families sailing with us further lifting Load Factor and driving margin expansion.

Our strong capacity growth, combined with low- to mid-single-digit yield gains and sub-inflationary cost growth is expected to drive meaningful margin expansion and continued deleveraging in 2026. I'm confident in our trajectory and excited about with the last months of 2025 and the year ahead will bring as we continue charting our course to our sustainable, long-term value creation.

With that, I'll hand the call back to Sherry to begin the question-and-answer session.