Annaly Capital Management, Inc. (NLY) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Sean Kensil
David Finkelstein - CEO, Co-Chief investment Officer & Director
Serena Wolfe - Chief Financial Officer
Ken Adler - Head of Mortgage Servicing Rights & Portfolio Analytics
V.S. Srinivasan - Head of Agency

Conference Call Participants

Bose George - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Jason Stewart - Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division
Eric Hagen - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Douglas Harter - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Richard Shane - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Harsh Hemnani - Green Street Advisors, LLC, Research Division
Trevor Cranston - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2025 earnings call for Annaly Capital Management. [Operator Instructions]

Please note today's event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Sean Kensil, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Sean Kensil

Good morning, and welcome to the fourth quarter 2025 earnings call for Annaly Capital Management. Any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which are outlined in the Risk Factors section in our most recent annual and quarterly SEC filings. Actual events and results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. We encourage you to read the disclaimer in our earnings release in addition to our quarterly and annual filings.

Additionally, the content of this conference call may contain time-sensitive information that is accurate only as of the date hereof. We do not undertake and specifically disclaim any obligation to update or revise this information. During this call, we may present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in our earnings release. Content referenced in today's call can be found in our fourth quarter 2025 Investor Presentation and fourth quarter 2025 financial supplement, both found under the Presentations section of our website.

Please also note this event is being recorded. Participants on this morning's call include David Finkelstein, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chief Investment Officer; Serena Wolfe, Chief Financial Officer; Mike Fania, Co-Chief Investment Officer and Head of Residential Credit; V.S. Srinivasan, Head of Agency and Ken Adler, Head of Mortgage Servicing Rights. And with that, I'll turn the call over to David.

David Finkelstein
CEO, Co-Chief investment Officer & Director

Thank you, Sean. Good morning, everyone, and thank you all for joining us for our fourth quarter earnings call. Today, I'll open with a brief overview of the macro and market environment and then touch on our performance for the quarter and the year, following which I'll provide an update on each of our 3 investment strategies and conclude with our outlook for 2026. Serena will then discuss our financials before opening up the call to Q&A.

Now starting with the macro landscape. The fourth quarter supported the prevailing narrative of a solid U.S. economy. Although official data flow was disrupted by the government shutdown. Reports received thus far suggest that the expansion continues at an above-trend pace. The labor market remains soft, however, as hiring slowed further in Q4, but limited layoffs and a reduction in labor force growth have muted the rise in the unemployment rate. Fixed income markets exhibited another strong quarter, in turn, helping 2025 register the highest total return in the U.S. aggregate bond index since 2020. The market benefited from continued strong inflows into bond funds and the ongoing decrease in both implied and realized rate volatility to the lowest levels since 2021.

This decline in volatility was supported by a more predictable outlook for monetary policy and following 75 basis points of aggregate rate cuts in 2025, markets currently priced nearly 2 additional cuts later this year. The pace and realization of those projected cuts will be dependent on developments in the labor market, stability and inflation, and the composition of the FOMC going forward. The yield curve further steepened during the quarter as short-term yields fell, while long-term yields rose modestly. Swap spreads continue to widen partially driven by a shift on the part of the Fed from quantitative tightening to balance sheet expansion through reserve management purchases and bills, which served to increase the stability in short-term funding markets.

And amid this constructive environment, our portfolio generated an economic return of 8.6% for the fourth quarter, with all 3 businesses contributing solid returns. For the full year 2025, we've delivered an economic return of just over 20% and a total shareholder return of 40%, underscoring the strength and resilience of our diversified housing finance strategies. And notably, we've been able to produce these results with a conservative leverage profile and our economic leverage decreased modestly to 5.6x on the quarter. Our earnings available for distribution rose marginally to $0.74 again outearning our dividend And also to note, we remained active in capital markets, raising $560 million of common equity through our ATM in Q4 bringing total equity raised in 2025 to $2.9 billion, inclusive of our Series J preferred stock issuance this past summer.

With the capital raised, we were able to accretively grow our portfolio by 30% on the year with each of our 3 strategies demonstrating double-digit growth. Now turning to our investment businesses and beginning with Agency. Our portfolio ended 2025 at $93 billion in market value, an increase of nearly $6 billion in the quarter and $22 billion over the course of the year with Agency ending the year representing 62% of the firm's capital. In addition to MBS benefiting fundamentally from lower volatility in a steeper yield curve, sector has exhibited a highly supportive supply and demand picture as well. In particular, strong and consistent bond fund inflows, REIT equity raises, and GSE portfolio growth of $50 billion through year-end against the backdrop of net MBS supply surprising to the downside, helped fuel spread contraction in the second half of 2025.

With respect to our portfolio activity, our purchase is centered on adding 5% coupons evenly split between pools and TBAs. Given the range-bound rate environment and steeper curve, we were comfortable taking on current coupon exposure to drive higher returns in light of the anticipated reduced hedging costs. And we also grew our Agency CMBS portfolio by roughly $1 billion given the sector's relative attractiveness compared to lower coupon MBS. With mortgage rates approaching 6% and recent prepay activity highlighting a more reactive borrower, higher coupons lagged on the coupon stack. However, we have deliberately constructed our specified pool portfolio with enough call protection to withstand a lower rate environment. For example, our 6% and 6.5% coupon pools have prepaid 40% slower than that a generic cheapest to deliver collateral, and we anticipate our holdings in these coupons should provide durable carry for years to come.

Now our hedge position remained broadly stable this quarter, consistent with our strategy of maintaining a conservative rate posture. With volatility at some of the lowest levels we've experienced over the past 5 years, our duration management focused predominantly on hedging new asset purchases using a combination of both treasury futures and swaps. Now shifting to residential credit. Our portfolio ended the fourth quarter at $8 billion in market value, up $1.1 billion quarter-over-quarter, representing approximately 19% of the firm's capital. Non-Agency residential credit was relatively range-bound throughout the quarter with AAA non-QM spreads, ending the year marginally tighter at 125 to the curve.

Q4 represented another record quarter for our Onslow Bay franchise as we achieved all-time highs across lock volume, fundings and securitization issuance. During the quarter, our correspondent channel locked and funded $6.4 billion and $5 billion, respectively. We settled an additional $800 million of whole loans via bulk acquisitions and we closed 8 securitizations totaling $4.6 billion. And this securitization activity resulted in the creation of $570 million of proprietary OBX assets on the quarter with mid-teens expected ROEs.

And throughout the entire year, we locked over $23 billion of loans to the correspondent and funded $16.5 billion exclusively through that channel, representing an increase of 30% and 40% year-over-year, respectively. During 2025, we closed 29 securitizations for an aggregate $15.2 billion, generating approximately $1.9 billion of high-quality retained assets for Annaly in our joint venture while remaining firmly entrenched as the largest nonbank issuer in the residential credit sector. And even with the continued growth in the Onslow Bay channel and securitization program, we remain disciplined on credit with our current locked pipeline representing a 762 weighted average FICO and a 68 original LTV with limited layer risk. Now the first few weeks of 2026 have been marked by credit spread tightening as both the corporate credit and structured finance asset classes have strengthened given the movement in the Agency MBS market.

Now this is a supportive backdrop for our business as declining cost of funds and stability in capital markets should keep our volumes elevated. Given our market leadership, Annaly remains well positioned to continue to benefit from the growth and liquidity of not only the non-QM market, but also the broader non-agency market, which is expected to experience the highest growth securitization issuance since 2007 this year. Now turning to MSR. Our portfolio ended the fourth quarter at $3.8 billion in market value including unsettled commitments, representing a nearly $280 million increase quarter-over-quarter and a 15% increase year-over-year, and MSR ended the year representing 19% of the firm's capital. And during the quarter, we committed to purchase $22 billion in principal balance or roughly $330 million in market value of MSR with a weighted average note rate of 3.46%.

Now these purchases were across 5 bulk packages in our flow channels, of which $150 million of market value is expected to settle in Q1. And notably, we are the second largest buyer of conventional MSR in 2025, onboarding $59 billion in UPB throughout the year, and we ranked as the sixth largest nonbank agency servicer. Bulk supply was ample this past year, and we expect this pace of activity to continue in 2026 due to increasing origination volumes, coupled with compressed gain on sale margins necessitating MSR sales as demonstrated throughout 2025.

Now regarding our flow business, we're focused on expanding our footprint and are now active across all GSE platforms, providing access to current coupon MSR, which we plan to purchase opportunistically. Our MSR valuation multiple increased marginally on the quarter driven by a steeper yield curve, modest spread tightening and lower volatility. Fundamental performance within the MSR portfolio continues to be strong and cash flows remain durable. The portfolio paid 4.6% CPR in Q4, unchanged quarter-over-quarter while serious delinquencies remain muted at 55 basis points. And with a weighted average note rate of 3.28% our portfolio is still 250 basis points out of the money. As we continue to enhance our subservicing and recapture relationships, we look forward to growing our MSR portfolio in the coming year taking advantage of the role we've created as a preferred partner to the originator and servicer community.

Now to conclude with our outlook, as we look further into 2026, each of our investment strategies is well positioned to continue delivering strong results for our shareholders. The agency spread tightening following the GSE's recent MBS purchase announcement has been pronounced, but it is important to note that not only are technicals in the market vastly better than at any time since the Fed was actively buying MBS. Also MBS hedging costs should be meaningfully lower given the decline in volatility supporting low to mid-teen prospective returns. And we anticipate the non-Agency market to continue to grow as a share of total origination and Onslow Bay is uniquely positioned to maintain its healthy pace of loan acquisitions and securitization issuance.

The non-QM market, in particular, has matured into a more liquid institutional asset class and our early positioning gives us significant competitive advantages in loan selection and execution. And our best-in-class MSR portfolio remains distinguished with an average note rate that is significantly out of the money and an exceptional credit profile which provides our portfolio with a stable cash flow vehicle, supporting our overall yield and returns. And most importantly, we believe our diversified housing model will continue to perform for our shareholders in the year ahead. In an environment where spreads across various asset classes have tightened unevenly, the optionality to invest in the most accretive assets is an important lever to drive returns that monoline peer strategies are not afforded.

And accordingly, while Agency will certainly continue to remain the anchor of our portfolio, our non-Agency strategies will likely see additional capital allocation, all else equal. We do, however, have the earnings power and the liquidity to be both patient and opportunistic and the scale to maintain our market leadership across housing finance and our diversification enables us to be resilient across different rate cycles and market environments. And now with that, I'll hand it over to Serena to discuss the financials.

Serena Wolfe
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, David. Today, I will provide a brief overview of the financial highlights for the quarter ended December 31, 2025, as well as select full year measures. Consistent with prior quarters, while our earnings release discloses GAAP and non-GAAP earnings metrics, my comments will focus on our non-GAAP EAD and related key performance metrics, which exclude PAA. Starting with book value. As of December 31, 2025, our book value per share increased 5% from $19.25 in the prior quarter to $20.21. After accounting for our $0.70 dividend, we achieved an economic return of 8.6% in Q4. This brings our full year 2025 economic return to 20.2%.

Strong investment gains drove this quarter's performance. We benefited from spread tightening driven by lower volatility as favorable technical factors. Gains on our interest rate swaps also supported results as swap spreads widened. Earnings available for distribution per share increased by $0.01 to $0.74. And again, as David mentioned earlier, exceeded our dividend for the quarter. This increase in EAD was driven by a 30 basis point improvement in our average repo rate to 4.2% and higher average investment balances resulting from growth in our Agency and Residential loan portfolios. For the full year, average yields rose 26 basis points year-over-year from 5.13% in 2024 to 5.39% in 2025.

However, these benefits were partially offset by lower levels of swap income due to lower average receive rates. Net interest spread and net interest margin, both excluding PAA, remained strong and comparable to prior quarters at 1.49% and 1.69%, respectively. For the full year 2025, net interest spread and net interest margin, both excluding PAA, reached 1.4% and 1.7%, an improvement of 18 basis points and 13 basis points, respectively further demonstrating the returns from our disciplined investing and funding teams. Turning to financing. We added $6.7 billion of repo principal at attractive spreads while deploying the proceeds from accretive ATM issuances during the quarter. This led to a Q4 reported ending repo rate of 4.02%, down 34 basis points.

Additionally, our weighted average repo days ended the quarter at 35 days, 14 days lower than the prior quarter. Our economic leverage ratio remained historically low at 5.6x, down 1 tick from the third quarter's end. Meanwhile, total warehouse capacity across our residential credit and MSR businesses reached $6.9 billion, with $2.7 billion of that committed. We continue to maintain ample capacity in both businesses with utilization rates at 47% for residential credit and 50% for MSR. As for liquidity, we ended the fourth quarter with $7.8 billion in unencumbered assets, including $6.1 billion in cash and unencumbered agency MBS. We also have about $1.5 billion in fair value of MSR pledged committed warehouse facilities but still undrawn, which can be quickly converted to cash, subject to market advance rates.

As a result, our total assets available for financing are approximately $9.4 billion, up $500 million from the third quarter. This represents about 58% of our total capital base and provides significant liquidity and flexibility. Finally, regarding OpEx, our efficiency ratios again improved significantly during the quarter, down 10 basis points to 1.31% and brought the full year ratio to 1.42%, illustrating the efficiencies of our size and scale. Now that concludes our prepared remarks, and we'll now open the line for questions. Thank you, operator.

