NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. (NNE) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 18, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Matthew Barry - Director of Investor Relations
Jiang Yu - Founder, Executive Chairman, President, Secretary & Treasurer
James Walker - CEO & Director
Jaisun Garcha - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Jeffrey Grampp - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division
Sameer Joshi - H.C. Wainwright & Co, LLC, Research Division
Subhasish Chandra - The Benchmark Company, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the NANO Nuclear Fiscal Year 2025 Financial Results and Business Update Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce Matthew Barry, Director of Investor Relations and Capital Markets.

Matthew Barry
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me on the call today are Jay Yu, NANO Nuclear's Founder, Chairman and President; our CEO, James Walker; and CFO, Jaisun Garcha. Please note that today's press release and slide presentation to accompany this webcast are available on our website. Before moving ahead, I'll quickly address forward-looking statements made on this call.

Listeners should note that today's presentation will contain certain forward-looking statements about NANO Nuclear's future goals and potential milestones that are made under the safe harbor provisions of the applicable federal securities laws. Words such as aim, may, could, should, seek, project, expect, intend, plan, believe, anticipate, hope, estimate, goal, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

These statements are based upon many assumptions and estimates made by management, all of which are inherently subject to significant risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond NANO's control. Many of these are shown on the slide you see here. You're cautioned that actual results, including, without limitation, the results of NANO's microreactor development activities, strategies and other operational plans, including the results of our regulatory acquisition and research and development initiatives, as well as future potential results of operations, operating metrics, addressable market and other matters about the future, which may be discussed may differ materially and adversely from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, the risk factors and other disclosures contained in NANO's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the risk factors and other disclosures in our Form 10-K filed today and our other filings with the SEC, all of which are or will be accessible on the Investor Relations section of NANO's website as well as the SEC's website. You're encouraged to review these disclosures carefully. Except to the extent required by law, NANO assumes no obligation to update statements as circumstances change.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jay Yu, NANO's Founder, Chairman and President.

Jiang Yu
Founder, Executive Chairman, President, Secretary & Treasurer

Thank you, Matt, and thank you to everyone joining the call today. I'll begin the call with a high-level overview of the major trends shaping the advanced nuclear market and then highlight the meaningful progress we made in 2025. NANO nuclear has worked to position itself at the center of a global nuclear renaissance. This is driven by several durable long-term trends including growing demand for reliable baseload energy, climate mandates and energy independence and global support for nuclear energy.

First, we are seeing a significant need for reliable baseload power to enable the rapid growth of AI data centers, industrial reshoring and broader electrification. AI data centers are projected to be a primary driver of the continued surge in electricity demand. For more than 2 decades, U.S. power demand grew below 1% per year.

According to the recent Grid Strategies report, some estimates call for electricity usage to increase by 5% to 6% annually over the next 5 years, and data centers alone could account for more than half of that growth. Meeting this level of demand could require U.S. power sector to plan and build new generation transmission capacity at more than 6x the pace of recent years. Also, it is not just the scale expected demand that's important, but the type of demand that's coming online. The Grid Strategies report highlights that the next wave of demand is projected to run at load factors close to 96% compared to system-wide average of about 60% today.

Over the past year, several major tech leaders have taken concrete steps to secure dedicated nuclear capacity for their data centers, whether it's new PPAs at existing nuclear plants or collaborations with advanced reactor developers, these actions reflect a clear recognition that meeting future AI data centers' needs require firm, always available power, a role nuclear is uniquely suited to fill. And equally as important, a lack of sufficient transmission infrastructure is expected to constrain the grid's capacity to meet forecasted power with even conservative growth estimates expected to require substantial grid expansion. All of this represents a fundamental shift that is placing an even greater emphasis on scalable and constant sources of baseload power that can operate independently from grid constraints.

This is exactly where microreactors offer a compelling advantage. Second, energy sustainability, energy security and climate-related mandates continue to increase demand for clean energy, requirements that intermittent sources alone cannot meet. As a result, there is a growing global commitment amongst nations, leading institutions and the world's largest energy users to triple nuclear capacity by 2050, solidifying growth in nuclear energy as a secular trend for the coming decades.

Third, we continue to benefit from the unprecedented bipartisan policy support for nuclear energy in the United States and the growing global support. This is supporting expansion of nuclear capacity while also accelerating development of advanced reactors like ours. President Trump's 4 executive orders in May further enhanced federal support for nuclear energy. And since then, we've seen a series of concrete federal actions that are building upon the administration's executive orders. First, the U.S. Army's Janus program creates a defined near-term pathway for the U.S. Army to deploy microreactors later this decade, which bodes well for NANO's opportunities for military applications.

Second, the Genesis Mission executive order supports several of the administration's high strategic priorities, AI leadership, national security power needs and energy dominance, priorities that can be enhanced by microreactors. And third, the creation of a Nuclear Fuel Cycle Defense Production Act Consortium supports the reestablishment of domestic nuclear fuel supply chain, which could support our strategic efforts in areas like conversion and enrichment. The rapid progress we've made this year have been accelerated by these regulatory tailwinds, which continue to strengthen demand for advanced nuclear reactors.

Fiscal year 2025 was a transformative year for NANO, marked by disciplined execution across several parts of our business. We've advanced the KRONOS MMR Energy system meaningfully from acquiring the asset out of bankruptcy to securing our strategic collaboration with the University of Illinois, achieving important NRC milestones and completing the necessary site characterization and drilling work for our planned Q1 of 2026 construction permit application with the NRC. We also made significant progress towards resuming formal licensing activities with the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission through the acquisition of Global First Power, which has since been rebranded as True North Nuclear.

During the year, we strengthened our company with key corporate milestones, including the acquisition of our Oak Brook engineering and demonstration facility, securing incentives from the State of Illinois, expanding our executive and technical teams and simplifying our microreactor portfolio with a Letter of Intent to sell ODIN design to Cambridge AtomWorks for $6.2 million. On the fuel cycle front, we've made significant progress derisking our supply chain through our strategic collaboration and investment in our affiliate list technologies. Our addition with our affiliate list technology to the DOE's LEU Acquisition Program and developing our own conversion capabilities.

Financially, we remain well capitalized, raising over $600 million since our May 2024 IPO with growing support from institutional investors and numerous index inclusions. And importantly, we continue to expand our pipeline of commercial opportunities. We executed a feasibility study agreement with BaRupOn to evaluate up to 1 gigawatt of power with our KRONOS MMR. We secured the AFWERX Direct to Phase 2 contract to conduct a feasibility study to site KRONOS MMR at the Joint Base Anacostia Bolling and also grew our pipeline of potential customers through ongoing discussions with potential data centers, industrial and defense customers.

I could not be more proud of our progress our team has made over the last year. We're more excited to continue executing our strategy. With that, I'll hand over the call to James Walker, our CEO, who will discuss our differentiated strategy, the value proposition of our technology and provide an update on the recent development and commercial progress.

James Walker
CEO & Director

Thank you, Jay. I'll first outline why microreactors offer a compelling value proposition relative to both traditional nuclear and larger SMRs currently in development. Traditional nuclear reactors are typically gigawatt scale projects, while most SMR designs range anywhere from 70 to 350-megawatt electric in size. Because of the smaller size of our KRONOS MMR, we believe a larger portion of our reactor components can be manufactured and assembled in a factory and shipped to site. Factory production and fabrication will allow us to standardize components, capture learning benefits much earlier and reduce the amount of on-site construction that has historically led to delays and cost overruns in traditional nuclear projects. Modularity is a second major advantage.

Our design allows customers to scale capacity incrementally to match their ramp-up plans, and this approach can reduce upfront capital requirements for large projects and allows construction efficiencies to improve with every unit delivered. Third, passive safety features and use of advanced fuels support the ability to co-locate at customer sites, allowing us to provide off-grid or behind-the-meter power. This is important as grid integration is becoming a significant constraint facing large energy users.

Interconnection queues can be years long. Transmission upgrades are costly and many high-load customers simply cannot wait for new lines to be built. By placing one or more of our microreactors directly adjacent to a customer site, we can eliminate much of that bottleneck. When you combine these factors, we believe microreactors represent the most practical solution for meeting the growing need for clean, reliable baseload power, particularly in locations where grid constraints are significant, while also providing increased opportunities to benefit from economies of scale. This is precisely why we are seeing strong interest from data centers, industrial facilities and military stakeholders for our KRONOS MMR.

Having covered the broader value proposition of microreactors, I'll now focus on what really differentiates our flagship reactor, KRONOS MMR, technically and commercially. So the KRONOS MMR is a high-temperature gas-cooled reactor. It utilizes TRISO fuel and helium as the primary coolant. These are well-understood proven technologies with decades of operating history behind them. Prior to our acquisition, we believe more than $120 million was invested in this design over an 8-year period. That investment, combined with the global data sets that exist for high-temperature cooled reactor systems give us a strong foundation as we move towards U.S. and Canadian licensing and prototype construction.

In the U.S., we remain on track to submit a construction permit application for the U of I project in the first quarter of 2026. And in Canada, we are actively working to reestablish formal licensing activities as we work towards submitting a license to prepare a site with the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission, the CNSC. While KRONOS is applicable to a range of markets, it's particularly well suited for large-scale deployments where many units can be co-located, connected and scaled over time to match demand growth.

And because of the reactor's modularity and the ability to factory fabricate components, we believe KRONOS has the potential to capture meaningful economies of scale as deployment volumes increase. Importantly, we estimate the learning curves of manufacturing and on-site assembly can potentially deliver a levelized cost of energy that is more competitive with traditional nuclear, wind and solar while providing the option for 24/7 reliability that intermittent sources cannot. In short, we see KRONOS as a derisked scalable platform with significant commercial applicability and especially aligned with the needs of high demand, high uptime customers.

I'd now like to highlight why we believe the maturity of this technology materially derisks this reactor. The KRONOS reactor builds on high-temperature gas-cooled reactor technology that has been demonstrated across multiple countries for more than 5 decades. TRISO fuel, helium coolants and graphite moderation are high TR level components with extensive operating data. Our balance of plant strategy also leverages commercially available components, including steam generation and turbines as well as proven thermal storage systems used in today's concentrated solar plants.

And importantly, we are staying within conservative temperature and coolant parameters consistent with prior deployments. Because of this, the key technologies themselves are largely demonstrated. Our focus is not on inventing novel reactor technology. It's on integrating well-understood systems into a microreactor format to be licensed and ultimately deployed efficiently. Building on that, I'd also like to touch on how the KRONOS design and modularity translate into deployment versatility across different scales and customer needs.

KRONOS' standard design and modularity provide the flexibility to serve a broad range of applications from single-unit installations for remote communities, mining projects or defense sites with power needs around 15 to 20-megawatt electric to distributed multiunit deployments all the way up to large-scale deployments where many units can be connected and scaled over time, enabling staged growth to 1 gigawatt and beyond. We believe this level of deployment versatility is a core advantage that opens the door to more use cases compared to many larger SMRs or conventional nuclear reactors.

Another foundational aspect of our value proposition is the inherent safety profile of the KRONOS' design. KRONOS incorporates negative reactivity feedback, passive heat removal, passive shutdown characteristics and uses helium and inert gas along with TRISO fuel. These features allow the reactor to safely dissipate heat without operator intervention or external power. Under a design basis accident analysis for an 840-megawatt electric plant, projected dose levels remain well within the site boundary, meaning an emergency planning zone would remain within that site footprint.

Practically, this means the reactor is designed so that heat is managed passively, fuel remains stable and any negative scenario remains localized, enabling siting directly at the point of use. This is a meaningful distinction from traditional large-scale reactors and some SMRs that require much larger emergency planning zones. And this safety profile can enable off-grid power that could bypass grid integration and [ costly ] transmission lines.

To bring KRONOS to market, we're pairing strong technology with the right strategic partners and state and federal government support. At the federal level, recent executive actions are signaling clear momentum by directing the NRC, the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy to expedite advanced reactor development and deployment. At the state level, Illinois has provided strong backing, highlighted by our $6.8 million incentive award and also provides unmatched nuclear workforce and infrastructure to host a first-of-a-kind microreactor. University of Illinois brings the technical capability, engineering depth and credibility necessary to execute.

Together with the expertise of project supporters like EPCM firm, Hatch, and construction firm PCL, we have a great deal of expertise with complex infrastructure delivery. We believe we have the right support to enable our partnership with U of I to be a model for a first-of-a-kind deployment.

As our technical progress advances, support strengthens and more customers recognize KRONOS' value proposition, we're seeing strong interest from a growing pipeline of potential customers. First, we're currently conducting a feasibility study with BaRupOn to explore 1 gigawatt of deployed power for their AI data center and manufacturing campus in Liberty, Texas, demonstrating real demand for large-scale applications. Our team is currently advancing the feasibility study, which we expect to be followed by early project development activities.

In addition, we continue to see strong interest from data center developers, industrial customers and military users, each of which are interested in baseload energy sources and increasingly want this reliability to be off-grid. We also remain excited about additional opportunities for remote communities, mining projects and other markets. Beyond our commercial traction, we're also advancing our strategic focus on vertical integration to derisk one of the most critical elements of future deployment, the nuclear fuel supply chain. Our focus on vertical integration stems from our belief that one of the largest constraints to deploying advanced reactors at scale isn't the reactor technology, but fuel availability.

As a result, we're working to gain exposure to several critical stages of the fuel cycle, starting with enrichment through our collaboration with an investment in our affiliate list technologies. Our affiliate list owns the only U.S. origin patented laser enrichment technology and its selection as a DOE LEU Acquisition Program prime contractor reinforces the potential strategic importance of their technology. Our role as a subcontractor positions NANO to directly participate in strengthening the domestic fuel supply chain needed for next-generation reactors. And our relationship with our affiliate LIST has the potential to provide us with differentiated enrichment solution.

In parallel, we're exploring opportunities to build our capabilities in conversion and fuel transportation through strategic partnerships and M&A. Further progress in each of these areas will not only derisk future reactor deployments, but also positions NANO to generate revenue across multiple verticals while remaining aligned with federal funding and national energy security needs.

With that, I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Jaisun, to provide financial highlights.

Jaisun Garcha
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, James. I'll now provide a summary of our fiscal 2025 financial performance. We finished the year with a strong balance sheet supported by multiple successful capital raises at progressively higher valuations. Our overall cash position substantially increased during the year, ending the period with cash and cash equivalents of $203.3 million, an approximately $175 million increase from the end of fiscal 2024. The year-over-year increase was mainly driven by net proceeds from several successful equity capital raises.

After our fiscal year-end, our cash position increased to approximately $580 million following an October 2025 private placement. We view our strong cash position and proven ability to raise funding at scale as a meaningful differentiator. With current cash on hand and our access to the public capital markets, we are well positioned to accelerate the licensing and commercialization of the KRONOS MMR while maintaining the flexibility to expand our vertical integration through disciplined M&A and potential strategic partnerships.

Turning to the income statement. Fiscal 2025 loss from operations was $46.2 million. The increase from fiscal 2024 was driven by an approximately $23 million increase in G&A expenses and an approximately $12 million increase in R&D expenses, primarily focused on advancing our KRONOS MMR and adjacent growth initiatives. Fiscal 2025 net loss totaled $40.1 million, up approximately $30 million from the prior year, reflecting the aforementioned increase in operating expenses. This was partially offset by an approximate $6 million increase in other income from higher interest income on a larger cash balance.

Net cash used in operating activities increased by approximately $11 million from the prior year to $19.6 million, driven by a higher net loss, partially offset by an increase in equity-based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities rose by approximately $14 million from the prior year to $17.5 million, driven by an increase in process R&D from our acquisition of the KRONOS MMR as well as property, plant and equipment additions related to the purchase of the Oak Brook, Illinois engineering and demonstration facility and the build-out of our Westchester, New York demonstration facility.

Before turning the call over to the operator for Q&A, I'd like to reiterate that our strong cash position and access to the public capital markets give us the financial strength to execute by accelerating advancement of KRONOS MMR -- while also providing the flexibility to pursue strategic partnerships and targeted M&A that further derisk our nuclear fuel supply chain and provide potential for near-term revenue generation. As always, we will continue to operate the business and allocate capital with discipline, prioritizing opportunities that offer compelling return on investment and unlock sustainable value for shareholders. With that, I'll now turn the call over to the operator to open up the call for Q&A.

