Northrop Grumman Corporation (NOC) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 21, 2025 9:30 AM EDT

Company Participants

Todd Ernst - Vice President, Investor Relations
Kathy Warden - Chair, CEO & President
Kenneth Crews - Corporate Vice President & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Kristine Liwag - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Ronald Epstein - BofA Securities, Research Division
Seth Seifman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Kenneth Herbert - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Scott Deuschle - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Richard Safran - Seaport Research Partners
Gavin Parsons - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Robert Stallard - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
Scott Mikus - Melius Research LLC
Myles Walton - Wolfe Research, LLC
Peter Arment - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Michael Ciarmoli - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Douglas Harned - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Third Quarter 2025 Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. My name is Bella, and I will be your conference operator today.

[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Todd Ernst, Vice President, Investor Relations. Mr. Ernst, please proceed.

Todd Ernst
Vice President, Investor Relations

Thanks, Bella, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Third Quarter 2025 Conference Call. Before we start, matters discussed on today's call, including guidance and outlooks for 2025 and beyond reflect the company's judgment based on information available at the time of this call. They constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to safe harbor provisions of federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those noted in today's press release and our SEC filings. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual company results to differ materially.

Today's call will include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to our GAAP results in our earnings release. In addition, we will refer to a presentation that is posted to our Investor Relations website. On the call today are Kathy Warden, our Chair, CEO and President; and Ken Crews, our CFO.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Kathy. Kathy?

Kathy Warden
Chair, CEO & President

Thanks, Todd. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our call. Disciplined execution of our business strategy has continued to position us well as global defense demand grows and our customers transform the way they acquire capability. We continue to prioritize providing technology leadership to our customers through innovation in both the way we do business and the capabilities we deliver. In doing so, we are building a strong backlog of future business. We are also performing well on our current programs, building the capacity for sustainable growth and transforming our operations by embracing digital technologies to deliver with speed, quality and affordability.

The Northrop Grumman team delivered another strong quarter of performance amidst the dynamic global environment. We achieved mid-single-digit growth, expanded our segment operating margin and grew free cash flow year-over-year. These results are aligned to our long-term financial outlook. The investments we have been making in capacity and capability over the last 6 years, enables us to deliver with urgency against our customers' highest priorities. In fact, we achieved an exceptionally strong book-to-bill of 1.17 in the quarter.

Our organic growth rate was 5% year-over-year and our international growth rate was 32%. It is also worth noting that apart from our Space segment, where we continue to have a challenging compare related to the wind-down of 2 large programs, revenue growth was approximately 9%. Despite strong growth in the quarter, we are revising our full year revenue guidance down due to delayed timing on certain awards and programs.

In addition, the team delivered another outstanding quarter of operating performance. Segment operating margin increased to 12.3% in Q3, which drove a 10% year-over-year increase in earnings per share. We also increased our free cash flow by 72% year-over-year and are on track to meet our full year guidance.

In the quarter, we made significant strides across multiple programs to position our company for the future. Last month, the second B-21 aircraft entered flight test, another significant milestone for the program as we continue to gain momentum. This starts a new phase of the test program, transitioning from general flight performance evaluation to integrating weapons and mission systems.

Our testing campaign also involves multiple B-21 aircraft undergoing ground tests prior to flying, which is validating performance and minimizing risk. With the progress we've made, we remain on track to receive the LRIP Lot 3 and Lot 5 advanced procurement awards later this year.

We continue discussions with the Air Force on the framework for an agreement to accelerate the B-21 production rate. If an agreement is reached, as previously disclosed, we expect to deploy additional investment to achieve the increased rate with the opportunity to earn improved returns.

We've also made important progress on missile defense programs that can support emerging requirements. In the quarter, we received a multibillion-dollar extension on the ground-based Midcourse Defense Weapon Systems contract. This contract award extends our period of performance through 2030 to provide new GMD capability. GWS is an integrated system designed to protect the U.S. from long-range ballistic missile threats. System enhancements, including integrating the next-generation interceptor into the GMD system, updating launch equipment and advancing the communication capabilities between the GWS and the Interceptor fleet.

In addition, IBCS continues to be an effective and ready-now solution to meet the global air and missile defense mission. In this quarter, IBCS successfully completed live fire testing events for both Poland and the U.S. Army customers, continuing its record of strong performance in operational tests. With these latest events, IBCS is now 32 for 32 in successful flight tests. We are also advancing the capability to introduce cloud and mobile technologies into IBCS as well as enhanced artificial intelligence.

We have demonstrated our ability to rapidly adapt to changing mission requirements, adding new operation capabilities through software in a matter of hours to effectively defeat evolving threats. I have previously outlined the investments we've made in solid rocket motor capacity and capabilities over the last several years.

Leveraging those investments in the quarter, our GEM 63XL rocket boosters played a crucial role in powering a ULA Vulcan Rocket that delivered the third batch of Amazon Kuiper satellites to orbit. With additional launches in backlog, the Kuiper program is poised to be a key growth driver for the company going forward.

Additionally, we've self-funded investments in tactical solid rocket motor capabilities that have enabled us to pursue and win that can source opportunities. Recently, we were selected by the Navy as a second supplier for the SM-6 missile. This is one of several initiatives, including the 21-inch motor award that we discussed on our last call that we've undertaken to enhance our SRM competitiveness and broaden our market presence. There are many notable accomplishments from the quarter, but let me now take a step back for a moment and talk about the transformation that is underway in the Department of War in how they acquire capability and what they seek from an industry partner like Northrop Grumman.

I noted earlier that we are innovating, both in the capabilities we deliver and the ways we work. We are bringing proposals forward to accelerate our program, embrace new technology and partner more effectively. We also continue to invest in American factories and workers where we design and build the most advanced systems and technologies in support of our nation's war fighters.

Over the past 2 years, we've allocated over 4% of our sales towards capital expenditures, well above industry averages. This investment is essential in providing the capacity to meet demand for next-generation aircraft capabilities, ramping up production in munitions and propulsion, laying the foundation for significant growth in microelectronics and expanding production facilities to deliver hundreds of satellites and aircrafts.

We have also invested over $2 billion in the infrastructure and development of our enterprise-wide digital ecosystem that continues to yield phenomenal results. As we test and prove that digital models have extremely high correlation with the physical products we are delivering. This is game-changing for the way we design, build and produce our products. It opens paths for more affordable solutions for our customers and more predictable and improved returns for our shareholders. And as we look even further over the horizon to 5 or 10 years into the future and beyond, our team of world-class engineers is undertaking research and development and pushing technology boundaries today that will support our competitiveness tomorrow.

Over the past 2 years, we've invested over $2.1 billion in IRAD to maintain our technology leadership and for continuous innovation to disrupt the market and ourselves with the objective of maintaining long-term sustainable advantage for our war fighters and policymakers. As I mentioned earlier, we are exploring creative ways to bring solutions to market faster and focusing on priority areas, such as the development and fielding of multifunction sensors, new and innovative ways to incorporate AI into our solutions and developing fielding new smarter weapon systems that bring unmatched superiority on the battlefield to name just a few.

The themes we are seeing in the U.S. are also true in the international market. Our allies are committed to modernizing their armed forces and investing in deterrent capabilities and the current geopolitical environment has increased the urgency for them to act now. This is being reflected in a significant increase in defense spending that is expected to carry well into the next decade. Allied Nations are prioritizing investments in air and missile defense, ground-based radars, airborne ISR and other advanced weapon systems to enhance their ability to deter and defend against conflict. This growing demand presents substantial opportunities for our company, and we are well positioned to deliver solutions that meet the evolving needs of our customers worldwide. These factors contributed to our international sales growing 20% year-to-date.

Before I turn to 2026, let me address the U.S. government shutdown. It is unclear how long it might persist, but we are hopeful it will be resolved in the near term. Assuming it is, we do not anticipate any significant impact on our financial results. In the meantime, we remain focused on executing our programs and delivering on our commitments. Looking longer term, there continues to be strong bipartisan support for national security priorities with robust levels of investment provided through reconciliation and being considered for FY '26 appropriation. We believe this continued commitment to funding will result in a long tail of demand as resources are allocated and invested into the industrial base. Our confidence in these underlying trends reaffirms our outlook and positions us well for sustained growth.

As we look ahead to the new year, I'd like to take a moment to provide you with some color on how we're thinking about 2026. We expect mid-single-digit organic sales growth, supported by growth in all 4 of our segments. This top line growth will, in turn, enable us to also grow segment operating income. We expect the segment OM rate in the low to mid-11% range.

Lastly, as we look at cash, we are reaffirming our existing outlook range for 2026 free cash flow of $3.1 billion to $3.5 billion. I'd note that these estimates are not inclusive of a potential win on F/A-XX or an acceleration of the B-21 production rate. And as usual, we plan to provide formal guidance during our Q4 earnings call in January.

So in summary, I'd like to emphasize our unwavering commitment to our technology-focused business strategy, which continues to drive our profitable growth. We're experiencing an unprecedented demand environment, and our capital deployment strategy is enabling us to meet this demand, and prepare us for opportunities in the future. As we move forward, our primary focus remains disciplined execution of our strategy and creating lasting value for both our customers and our shareholders.

So now let me hand it over to Ken to provide more details on the quarter's financial results.

Kenneth Crews
Corporate Vice President & CFO

Thank you, Kathy, and good morning, everyone. As you just heard from Kathy, we delivered another strong quarter of financial performance. Let's begin on Slide 4, which shows our top line results for the quarter. Third quarter sales were $10.4 billion, up 4% compared to the prior year and up 5% on an organic basis. We continue to expect further acceleration in Q4 with all segments returning to growth, both sequentially and on a year-over-year comparison.

Aeronautics generated third quarter sales of $3.1 billion, up 6% compared to the prior year. Higher sales were driven by the ramp of TACAMO and higher volume on F-35 program, partially offset by lower sales on F/A-18 as the program winds down. Sales at DS were exceptionally strong in Q3, accelerating to nearly $2.1 billion. Sales were higher across the DS portfolio, including on ammunition and weapons programs, IBCS and Sentinel. In total, DS sales grew by 14% compared to Q3 of last year and by 19% organically.

Mission Systems continues to deliver unmatched technological innovation at a rapid rate. This is reflected by further growth on restricted microelectronic programs in Q3, which led the segment to another quarter of double-digit sales growth. Sales were also higher at Marine Systems and on international programs, building on the strong momentum from the first half of the year.

And at Space Systems, Q3 sales grew on a sequential basis again this quarter, rising to $2.7 billion. On a year-over-year basis, sales were down mid-single digits as expected, and we have now nearly lapped the top line headwinds we've been experiencing on 2 programs for the past 18 months. Looking forward, we believe that Space is poised to return to growth given our positioning and opportunities in this arena.

Moving to the bottom line on Slide 5. Operational performance was outstanding again in quarter 3. Segment operating income increased by 11% year-over-year, and our segment operating margin rate increased 80 basis points to 12.3%. AS operating income dollars were relatively flat compared to a year ago, and operating margin rate was 9.7%. This was driven by strong operating performance on mature production programs as well as lower net profitability adjustments. As we do every quarter, we reviewed our estimate to complete the LRIP phase of the B-21 program and made no significant changes to the previously recognized loss. However, we experienced higher-than-expected costs to produce the EMD flight test aircraft, which increased our estimate to manufacture the LRIP units. This increase was largely offset by a reduction in our expected loss on remaining LRIP loss due to a contract restructure that occurred during the quarter.

Turning to DS. Quarter 3 margins improved to 11.4%, driven by strong operational performance and higher net favorable EAC adjustments. While the Q2 margin outperformance was driven by Sentinel, this quarter's strength was broad-based, with higher margin rates in each of the business areas. Mission Systems operating income increased 32% and their Q3 segment OM rate increased nearly 300 basis points to 16.7%. This performance was enabled by intentional steps this team has taken to drive efficiencies, mitigate risk and increase factory utilization, which drove a $68 million favorable EAC adjustment in the restricted advanced microelectronics portfolio. And Space Systems also had a solid quarter of operational performance, generating an operating margin rate of 11%.

These strong bottom line results drove higher earnings per share, as shown on Slide 6. Third quarter diluted earnings per share were $7.67, an increase of 10% compared to Q3 of 2024. In addition to strong segment results, mark-to-market gains on marketable securities increased by $0.35 compared to Q3 of last year. These benefits, along with higher net pension income were partially offset by higher corporate unallocated expenses and a higher federal tax rate, as previously disclosed.

As we reflect on our performance to date and expectations for Q4, we have a few updates to our company-level guidance as shown on Slide 7. For sales, we are adjusting our outlook to a range of $41.7 billion to $41.9 billion, reflecting approximately 8% Q4 growth at the midpoint. We continue to expect a ramp in Q4 sales in all 4 segments, but at a slightly lower rate compared to our prior expectations. Importantly, we are maintaining our segment operating income dollar guidance range despite the lower sales volume. This results in a segment OM rate that is roughly 10 basis points higher than our prior guidance at the midpoint and is a testament to the team's continued focus on disciplined program execution and driving efficiencies throughout the business.

Moving to earnings per share. We are increasing our guidance by $0.65, now to a range of $25.65 to $26.05. The increase is driven by several factors. First, we are lowering our expectations for other corporate unallocated expenses to $250 million, a reduction of $30 million driven by lower unallowable cost. Secondly, we have slight revisions to our expectations for pension income and the effective tax rate, each providing a modest boost to EPS. And as I mentioned, we experienced a return on marketable securities in the quarter, which totaled roughly $80 million. Given market volatility, we have not assumed the entire Q3 gain in our full year guidance expectations.

Rounding out our company level guidance is cash flow. We are reaffirming our free cash flow expectations of $3.05 billion to $3.35 billion. Third quarter free cash flow of $1.3 billion was well ahead of the past few years, and we continue to expect the largest quarter of cash generation in the fourth quarter, consistent with our seasonal pattern.

In addition, the unique factors driving year-end cash, as outlined during the Q2 call remain intact, including lower Q4 cash tax payments, higher milestone payments and inventory liquidations at AS. For the year, our guidance represents 22% annual free cash flow growth at the midpoint, making a third consecutive year of free cash flow growth greater than 20%.

Turning to segment-level guidance on Slide 8. We are reaffirming our top line guidance for DS and Space as they performed in line with our expectations in Q3, and we have not changed our view on their sales ramp in Q4. For Aeronautics, we are lowering top line guidance to the high $12 billion range. As we outlined on our Q2 earnings call, the second half ramp at AS is based on higher B-21 volume, ramp on new program wins, including TACAMO and normal production volume that is seasonally weighted towards the end of the year. And while all these factors remain intact, we are projecting a modestly lower sales level due to delayed timing on certain programs.

In addition, we are increasing our expectations for intercompany sales, driven by higher activity on restricted programs throughout the portfolio. These are partially offset by an increase to our sales guidance expectations at MS based on the strength of their year-to-date results and expectations for continued growth in Q4. As a result, we now expect MS sales in the mid-$12 billion range.

With respect to segment operating margin rates, we have 1 update this quarter related to DS. As I mentioned, they delivered another strong quarter of operational performance, and as a result, we are increasing the OM rate expectation to the high 10% range.

Before concluding my prepared remarks, I wanted to build on Kathy's comments regarding our 2026 outlook. First, sales growth next year is expected to be more balanced across each of the segments, with each contributing to growth. Secondly, operating income is expected to grow compared to 2025, and we don't anticipate a repeat of the large EAC adjustments we experienced this year on B-21, Sentinel and microelectronics. Adjusting for these items, our outlook for low to mid-11% margins would represent an increase compared to 2025.


I'd also like to share our latest projections for 2026 net pension income based on current market conditions. As we typically do this time of year, we've included a 2026 pension income sensitivity grid on Slide 10. Year-to-date through September, asset returns were just north of 9%, slightly better than our initial expectations and discount rates were down 25 basis points. This combination will result in a modest increase to 2026 net pension income compared to our prior projections, depending on where we end the year. Importantly, our pension plans remain fully funded, and we continue to project minimal cash contributions over the next several years.

So in conclusion, we believe we are well positioned for a broad range of new opportunities. We remain focused on growing our business, delivering strong operational performance, and generating cash flows that allow us to execute our business strategy.

With that, let's open the call for Q&A.