Nucor Corporation (NUE) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 10:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Chris Jacobi
Leon Topalian - President, CEO & Chairman of the Board
Stephen Laxton - CFO, Treasurer & Executive VP
John Hollatz - Executive Vice President of Fabricated Construction Products
David Sumoski - Chief Operating Officer
Noah Hanners - Executive Vice President of Sheet Products
Randy Spicer - Executive Vice President of Bar & Rebar Fabrication Products
Brad Ford - Executive Vice President of Plate & Structural Products

Conference Call Participants

Alexander Hacking - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
William Peterson - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Lawson Winder - BofA Securities, Research Division
Timna Tanners - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Philip Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Katja Jancic - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Andrew Jones - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Tristan Gresser - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to Nucor's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] And today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I would like to introduce Chris Jacobi, Director of Investor Relations. You may begin your call.

Chris Jacobi

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. I'm excited to join you this morning as the newest member of the Nucor IR team and welcome you to our third quarter earnings review and business update. Leading our call today is Leon Topalian, Chair, President and CEO; along with Steve Laxton, Executive Vice President and CFO. Other members of the Nucor executive team are also here with us today and may participate during the Q&A portion of the call.

Yesterday, we posted our third quarter earnings release and investor presentation to Nucor's IR website. We encourage you to access these materials as we will cover portions of them during the call. Today's discussion will include the use of non-GAAP financial measures and forward-looking information within the meaning of securities laws.

Actual results may be different than forward-looking statements and involve risks outlined in our safe harbor statement and disclosed in Nucor's SEC filings. The appendix of today's presentation includes supplemental information and disclosures along with a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.

With that, let's turn the call over to Leon.

Leon Topalian
President, CEO & Chairman of the Board

Thanks, Chris. I want to begin by thanking our 33,000 Nucor teammates for their continued commitment to safety. Our team has been lowering our injury and illness rate every year since 2017, and we are on track to do it again in 2025. This level of performance would be impressive at any point, but to do it through a period of significant growth is an amazing accomplishment. Congratulations to the entire Nucor team and let's make the last two months of 2025 the safest in Nucor's history.

Turning to Nucor's third quarter financial performance. We generated EBITDA of approximately $1.3 billion and earned $2.63 of EPS. These results exceeded our third quarter guidance driven by stronger-than-expected shipments from our steel mills and favorable corporate adjustments. Steve will provide more details during his financial update.

We remain committed to prudent capital management on behalf of our shareholders, balancing long-term growth with meaningful shareholder returns while maintaining our industry-leading credit profile. During the third quarter, we reinvested $807 million into the company with the majority of this capital related to growth projects that are nearing completion.

We've also returned approximately $230 million to Nucor shareholders through dividends and share buybacks, bringing our year-to-date returns to nearly $1 billion or 72% of net earnings. We also saw our long-term credit ratings upgraded to A3 by Moody's. Following the Moody's upgrade, we are now rated A- or A3 by all three ratings agencies, making us the only major North American steel producer to hold that distinction.

Creating value for our stakeholders requires a relentless focus on execution, and I'm proud of the work our team has done to advance our long-term mission to Grow The Core, Expand Beyond and Live Our Culture. We are in the final phase of our multiyear capital investment campaign and will complete four major projects by the end of this year. Recent milestones include the commissioning of two bar mill projects and the commencement of pole production in galvanizing operations at our Alabama Towers & Structures facility.

Our two new sheet coating facilities at Crawfordsville and Berkeley County remain on track, and the team in Crawfordsville recently processed the first coil through their new galvanizing line. And construction of our new sheet mill in West Virginia is 2/3 complete and remains on schedule to begin ramping up by the end of next year. Even as we invest to grow our capabilities, we remain focused on leveraging our existing asset base to generate attractive returns for our shareholders. For example, in steel products, we've taken steps to repurpose two existing steel products facilities to support our faster-growing Nucor data systems businesses.

And within the steel mills, we have recently decided to no longer pursue a new rebar micro mill project in the Pacific Northwest region. With the recent investments we've made in the bar group, we can serve the Western U.S. and Canadian markets from our current footprint with superior cost and supply chain advantages. We will continue to monitor market developments to ensure the best use of our shareholder capital.

As I've said in the past, our growth strategy is not about growing our capacity, it's about providing more capabilities for our shareholders, customers and team. The investments we are making now to grow our core steelmaking capabilities and expand into downstream steel adjacent businesses will better position Nucor to offer comprehensive integrated solutions unmatched by any of our competitors. And by optimizing our full portfolio to operate as one team, we make it easier for our customers to buy, build and succeed.

Let me now take a few minutes to highlight a couple of the areas where Nucor is improving its position as the supplier, employer and investment of choice within the steel industry. One of these is Nucor's bar mill group. As many of you know, Nucor entered the steelmaking business in 1969 when we began operating our first bar mill in Darlington, South Carolina. Over the following five decades, we have harnessed the inherent advantages of scrap-based steelmaking and Nucor's performance-driven culture to grow our bar mill group into the nationwide powerhouse that it is.

The bar mill team has delivered strong results in 2025, fueled by increased demand in the nonres construction markets and infrastructure markets. With our broad geographic coverage and capabilities, Nucor is well positioned to optimize both product mix and volume regionally. In fact, the team has set quarterly rebar shipment records twice so far this year, first in Q1 and then again in Q3. We also began ramping production in the third quarter at our new melt shop in Kingman, Arizona and our new rebar micro mill in Lexington, North Carolina.

Both facilities are strategically located in high-growth regions with reliable access to local scrap supply, enhancing our existing footprint in the Western and Southeast markets. We will continue ramping up operations over the coming months, with both projects on track to be EBITDA positive by the first quarter of 2026.

While we build our leadership in steelmaking, we are also positioning Nucor as a key supplier to high-growth markets, like data center construction. The Dodge Construction Network is forecasting 60 million square feet of data center construction in 2025, a 30% increase over '24. And the state of Virginia alone has seen 54 new data center permit applications in the first nine months of the year, underscoring the sector's momentum and long-term growth potential.

With our comprehensive portfolio of products, Nucor is uniquely equipped to partner with leading developers and hyperscalers who increasingly value speed and certainty of execution. We now supply over 95% of all steel products that go into a data center from the building envelope to the interior infrastructure. For example, we're the only provider capable of supplying steel for both conventional structures and preengineered buildings at scale.

Inside of data centers, we're accelerating growth in our Nucor data systems businesses, implementing domestic production of server cabinets and increasing capacity for hot aisle containment and data center support structures. This unlocks powerful cross-selling opportunities for our diverse product portfolio, creating better outcomes for customers and driving shareholder value.

Turning to trade policy. We've seen meaningful federal action this year supporting the American steel industry. Section 232 measures and ongoing trade enforcement are curbing imports with finished steel imports down nearly 11% year-to-date through August. Since the broader Section 232 tariffs were implemented, we have seen larger month-over-month reductions in imports and expect the trend to continue.

While imports have decreased since the comprehensive 50% steel tariffs went into effect, they continue to be a necessary tool to counteract the massive amounts of overcapacity that persist in the global steel sector. We believe that tariffs must stay in place with no exceptions or loopholes until there are fundamental changes in the global steel industry.

Ongoing trade cases continue to provide another important defense against unfairly traded imports. In September, the ITC commission rule that American steel producers were materially injured by imports of corrosion-resistant steel from 10 countries. Nucor is pleased with the decision, which clears the way for the Department of Commerce to issue final antidumping and countervailing duty orders in the coming weeks.

We are also following the Commerce Department's investigations into rebar imports from four countries and expect to see the preliminary determination later this quarter. Overall, we are encouraged by the administration's actions to help level the playing field for the American steel industry. And as North America's largest and most capable steel products company, Nucor is well positioned to create value for our customers and shareholders.

With that, let me turn it over to Steve, who will share additional details about our third quarter financial performance. Steve?

Stephen Laxton
CFO, Treasurer & Executive VP

Thank you, Leon, and thank you all for joining us on the call this morning. For the third quarter, Nucor generated net earnings of $607 million or $2.63 per share. Earnings were in line with the second quarter's adjusted earnings per share of $2.60 and above adjusted earnings per share of $1.49 for the third quarter of last year. Year-to-date, Nucor's adjusted net earnings are approximately $1.4 billion or $5.98 a share.

Earnings for the third quarter exceeded the midpoint of our guidance range by approximately $0.50. The guidance beat was driven by two main factors: better-than-expected shipments and lower pre-operating and start-up costs. Our steel mills segment realized higher-than-expected shipments in sheet, bar and structural. In September, our Berkeley division set an all-time production record. And as Leon mentioned earlier, the bar group achieved another quarterly record for rebar shipments.

The steel mills group also saw stronger-than-expected shipment levels from several mills coming out of the third quarter planned outages. Additionally, the steel products segment exceeded volume expectations, contributing further to overall outperformance. Several of our newer operations progressed through start-up activities more rapidly than anticipated, resulting in lower-than-expected pre-operating and start-up cost.

Pre-operating and start-up costs for the third quarter were $103 million. Favorable corporate and administrative impacts also contributed to the outperformance. These included lower inventory eliminations due primarily to lower-than-expected inventories in our downstream steel products segment as well as lower overall corporate and administrative costs.

Turning to the segment level results for the third quarter. The steel mills segment generated $793 million of pretax earnings, a decrease of 6% from the prior quarter. We saw improved results across our bar and structural steel groups, but lower profitability in sheet and plate more than offset the gains in longs.

We continue to see strong demand for long products and more subdued but stable demand for flats. That said, we are gaining market share and are encouraged by the recent operating performance of our steel mills. Sheet shipments nearly matched our record volumes set in the prior quarter with sheet backlog tons up 13% year-over-year. And our bar products backlog at the end of the third quarter was 35% higher than the same time last year.

Turning to steel products. We generated pretax earnings of $319 million, down from $392 million in the second quarter. Despite the sequential decline, volumes held up better than expected with external shipments increasing 4% quarter-over-quarter. However, operating profit was impacted by less favorable product mix, higher substrate pricing and planned outage cost.

Our steel products backlog has moderated alongside typical seasonal ordering trends, but ended the third quarter 14% higher year-over-year. The backlog extends well into the second quarter of 2026 for some of our more custom engineered product lines. Coating activity remains robust, and we believe this reflects business confidence among our customers servicing the construction and infrastructure markets as well as their confidence in Nucor as a reliable provider of high-quality solutions.

Turning to the raw materials segment. We realized pretax earnings of approximately $43 million compared to $57 million for the prior quarter. The primary driver of the sequential decline was lower pricing, partially offset by lower operating cost.

Moving to the balance sheet. Nucor continues to have a differentiated position of strength and flexibility in our industry. An example of this was on display in the past quarter as evidenced by our recent ratings upgrade by Moody's. And we remain committed to maintaining a strong investment-grade credit profile.

We ended the third quarter with a total debt to capital ratio of approximately 24% and cash of approximately $2.7 billion. We generated $1.3 billion in operating cash flow during the quarter, a testament to Nucor's cash-generating operating model. Capital expenditures totaled $807 million for the quarter, bringing our year-to-date total to $2.6 billion. We now expect full year CapEx to be $3.3 billion for 2025 as some project spending was pulled forward from 2026. We will provide more detail on our CapEx budget for 2026 on our year-end earnings call in January, but we expect overall expenditures to decline by more than $0.5 billion compared with 2025.

The cornerstone of Nucor's capital allocation framework is providing meaningful cash returns to shareholders. During the second quarter, we returned $227 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. Through the end of the third quarter, we've returned nearly $1 billion, representing 72% of Nucor's year-to-date net earnings. During the same period, we repurchased approximately 4.8 million shares at a weighted average price of approximately $126 per share.

Turning to our near- to medium-term demand outlook. I'd like to take a closer look at the distinct demand drivers shaping our flats, longs and steel products markets. While we're seeing varying levels of demand across these products, we expect each will continue to benefit from further declines in imports as the effects of tariffs and trade cases are realized. Beginning with our flat products, we expect strong demand from energy, data centers and advanced manufacturing. At the same time, we're monitoring softer conditions in areas like residential construction, consumer durables, heavy equipment and agricultural machinery. Additionally, new domestic supply is still being absorbed in the market.

Turning to long products. Our bar and structural mills continue to benefit from a number of demand drivers, underpinning a more constructive near-term outlook that we remain mindful of typical seasonal purchasing trends. Infrastructure spending remains elevated. The American Road and Transportation Builders Association reports that bridge and tunnel contract awards are up nearly 20% year-over-year. And 60% of total funds allocated to the IIJA highway projects remain unspent. As Leon mentioned, data centers and energy infrastructure needed to power them will continue to drive pronounced demand for Nucor's long products.

We also see good demand from institutional construction, stadiums, warehouses and chip facilities. In addition, we expect to capitalize on the strong regional demand and gain market share as our North Carolina micro mill and new melt shop in Arizona ramp up.

Finally, in our steel products segment, many of our business lines are benefiting from pockets of strength in nonresidential construction. As the market leader in custom engineered building products like joist and deck, metal buildings and insulated metal panels, we're seeing strong customer interest in our capabilities, particularly from those prioritizing speed, quality and certainty of execution.

We also expect healthy demand for our rebar fabrication business and incremental demand for tubular products. That said, we're closely monitoring the impact of evolving trade policy, higher construction cost and persistent softness among residential construction activity.

Turning to our fourth quarter outlook. We expect Nucor's consolidated earnings to be lower than the third quarter. We expect lower total volumes across all operating segments due to a combination of factors, including seasonal effects, Nucor's fiscal quarter continuing five less shipping days and two scheduled outages at our DRI facilities during the fourth quarter. We anticipate a decline in realized pricing within our steel mills segment, primarily driven by sheet. In contrast, pricing in our steel products segment is expected to remain stable.

Looking ahead to 2026, we expect stable domestic steel demand. With the broadest range of capabilities in the North American steel market, Nucor is confident in our ability to create value for our customers and shareholders as we capture a healthy share of that demand.

And with that, we'd like to hear from you and answer any questions you may have. Operator, please open up the line for questions.