Nucor Corporation (NUE) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Chris Jacobi - Director of Investor Relations
Leon Topalian - Chairman of the Board & CEO
Stephen Laxton - President, CFO & COO
David Sumoski - Executive Vice President
Noah Hanners - Executive Vice President of Sheet Products
Brad Ford - Executive Vice President of Plate & Structural Products
Randy Spicer - Executive Vice President of Bar & Rebar Fabrication Products

Conference Call Participants

Lawson Winder - BofA Securities, Research Division
Timna Tanners - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
William Peterson - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Philip Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Katja Jancic - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Andrew Jones - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Tristan Gresser - BNP Paribas, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to Nucor's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] And today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to introduce Chris Jacobi, Director of Investor Relations. You may begin your call.

Chris Jacobi
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Nucor's Fourth Quarter Earnings Review and Business Update. Leading our call today is Leon Topalian, Chair and CEO; along with Steve Laxton, President, COO and CFO. Other members of Nucor's executive team are also here with us today and may participate during the Q&A portion of the call. Yesterday, we posted our fourth quarter earnings release and investor presentation to Nucor's IR website. We encourage you to access these materials as we will cover portions of them during the call.

Today's discussion will include the use of non-GAAP financial measures and forward-looking information within the meaning of securities laws. Actual results may be different than forward-looking statements and involve risks outlined in our safe harbor statement and disclosed in Nucor's SEC filings. The appendix of today's presentation includes supplemental information and disclosures, along with a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.

So with that, let's turn the call over to Leon.

Leon Topalian
Chairman of the Board & CEO

Thanks, Chris, and welcome, everyone. For as long as I've been Nucor's CEO, we have opened our earnings calls by recognizing our safety performance, and I am pleased to continue that tradition again. In 2025, our team achieved the lowest injury and illness rate in our history, marking the eighth consecutive year of improvement. And we finished the year with incredible momentum as the final 2 months of the year were the safest 2 months we have ever recorded. These milestones have occurred during a period of significant growth and transformation for Nucor, and I am extremely proud of how our team continues to prioritize safety in everything we do.

However, as we pursue our goal of becoming the world's safest steel company, our safety journey will not be complete until we operate injury-free every day. Before I comment on our results, I would like to briefly address the management changes we announced at the end of last year. Effective January 1, Steve Laxton was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer. Throughout his 23 years at Nucor, Steve has demonstrated strong leadership and has played an important role in shaping our growth strategy. In this expanded role, he will have an even greater impact on the company's future. Steve will also continue to serve as CFO until a successor is named. Congratulations, Steve.

I would also like to acknowledge the many contributions of Dave Sumoski. Dave has served as our Chief Operating Officer since 2021 and will retire in June after more than 30 years at Nucor. Over that time, Dave has been a trusted leader, and his deep operational expertise and strong commitment to advancing our safety culture have made a lasting impact on the company. He will be missed by all of us when he begins a well-deserved retirement in June. On behalf of our teammates across Nucor, we wish Dave and his family all the best.

Turning to our financial performance. We delivered adjusted earnings of $1.73 per share in the fourth quarter and $7.71 per share for the full year. EBITDA totaled $918 million for the quarter and approximately $4.2 billion for the year. We remain committed to balancing long-term growth with meaningful shareholder returns while maintaining the strongest credit profile in our industry. For 2025, we reinvested $3.4 billion into the company, with the majority of that capital going to projects that were completed in 2025 or will be completed later this year, returned $1.2 billion to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks, representing approximately 70% of net earnings and finished the year with $2.7 billion in cash, providing ample liquidity to support the business and finance our growth objectives.

We begin 2026 with real momentum built on years of hard work, disciplined investment and a relentless commitment to Grow the Core, Expand Beyond and Live Our Culture. Since 2019, we have strengthened our steel mills segment through 15 major projects across our sheet, bar and plate groups. These investments have enhanced our capabilities while shifting our product mix toward higher-margin products that address growing customer needs in key markets. We have also expanded our steel products portfolio by delivering more comprehensive customer solutions and adding steel adjacent businesses supported by strong secular demand trends.

The progress we made in 2025 marked a meaningful inflection point as a number of projects transitioned from the construction phase to the ramp-up phase. Major projects completed include our new rebar micro-mill in Lexington, North Carolina, a new melt shop at our bar mill in Kingman, Arizona, a new Nucor Towers & Structures facility in Alabama and new galvanizing and prepaint lines at our Crawfordsville sheet mill in Indiana. All of these projects are on track to be fully ramped up and operating at positive EBITDA run rates within the year.

Our growth strategy has never been about simply getting bigger. It's about generating more value for our customers, shareholders and teammates. Even as we've executed on these growth projects, we've also taken deliberate steps to realign our asset base and improve our cost structure by restructuring operations and repurposing facilities to better serve fast-growing end markets. For example, we converted 2 existing steel products facilities to support our Nucor Data Systems business as it supplies the rapidly expanding data center market. This demonstrates a core strength of Nucor. With the broadest range of capabilities in the North American steel industry, we are uniquely positioned to capitalize on new opportunities wherever they emerge.

Turning to 2026. Several remaining projects will reach completion this year, and our teams are focused on bringing them online safely, on time and on budget. Within the sheet group, we are on schedule to complete construction of our new mill in West Virginia by year-end. Once online, this mill will begin supplying some of the cleanest and most advanced sheet steel in North America, serving automotive, construction and industrial customers. We will also start up the new galvanizing line at our Berkeley County mill with commissioning planned for mid-2026. Within towers and structures, construction continues on our greenfield utility pole production facility in Indiana, which is expected to begin full operations in the second quarter.

Our third greenfield project in Utah remains on track for completion in 2027. When these facilities are fully online, we will operate 4 highly automated state-of-the-art production sites with national coverage in the high-growth utility transmission tower market. Since 2020, we have invested approximately $20 billion through CapEx and acquisitions to grow our core steelmaking capabilities and expand into downstream businesses while returning nearly $14 billion of capital to shareholders and improving our credit profile. With the majority of our recent investments largely complete, I'm confident it sets up Nucor to enter its next phase of growth from a position of strength, focused on disciplined capital allocation while driving long-term value for our shareholders.

Moving to trade policy, vigorous enforcement of our trade remedy laws and the full reinstatement of the Section 232 steel tariffs without exemptions last year have helped drive down steel imports. Foreign import share of the U.S. finished steel market has dropped from approximately 25% at this time last year to 16% in October and an estimated 14% in November. We expect imports will continue to trend at or below those levels in 2026 as the market absorbs the full impact of the Section 232 tariffs and recent trade case determinations.

During 2025, the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission made important rulings regarding unfairly traded imports of corrosion-resistant steel and rebar. Together, the Section 232 tariffs and product-specific trade cases provide vital defenses against countries that seek to dump their steel into the U.S. market. We appreciate the efforts the federal government took in 2025 to level the playing field for the American steel industry.

Looking ahead, the trade policy will remain a priority for our industry. The formal USMCA review beginning in July offers the opportunity to drive additional steel demand in North America, crack down on efforts to transship steel through Mexico and Canada and address steel subsidies provided by the Canadian government. We must also continue to implement common-sense policies like Buy America that incentivize the use of American-made steel for infrastructure, shipbuilding and defense.

Turning to our expectations for 2026. We continue to see strength in many of our primary end markets, including infrastructure, data centers and energy and in energy infrastructure. We are also seeing healthy demand related to advanced manufacturing in the border fence. While those markets remain strong, we have yet to see much improvement from interest rate-sensitive markets like automotive and residential construction. In total, we expect domestic steel demand to be slightly up relative to 2025. And as I mentioned earlier, we expect the full impact of the Section 232 tariffs and recent trade determinations will lower levels of imported steel in 2026.

Against this supply and demand backdrop, we entered the year with historically strong backlogs, up nearly 40% year-over-year in the steel mills segment and 15% in steel products. Within that, our structural group really stands out. The team set a record in the first quarter of 2025, and the structural backlog we are carrying into this year is more than 15% above that, reflecting sustained demand across key nonresidential and infrastructure markets. For the full year, we currently expect Nucor steel mill shipments to increase approximately 5% compared to 2025.

With that, I will turn the call over to Steve to provide additional details on our fourth quarter and full year performance as well as our outlook for the first quarter. Steve?

Stephen Laxton
President, CFO & COO

Thank you, Leon, and thank you all for joining us on the call this morning. During the fourth quarter, Nucor generated adjusted net earnings of $400 million or $1.73 per share. For the full year, adjusted net earnings were approximately $1.8 billion or $7.71 per share. As noted in our earnings news release, adjusted fourth quarter earnings exclude $27 million or $0.09 per share of charges related to onetime noncash asset impairments, primarily related to discontinued operations that were recognized during the period. Full year results also exclude approximately $23 million or $0.10 per share of after-tax charges incurred in the first quarter, primarily related to closing or repurposing facilities in the steel products segment and ceasing production of wire rod at our Connecticut bar mills.

Turning to the segment level results. For the fourth quarter, the steel mills segment generated $516 million of pretax earnings, down roughly 35% from the prior quarter. Shipment volumes declined 8%, reflecting seasonal effects, fewer shipping days in Nucor's fiscal fourth quarter and the impact of both planned and unplanned outages. While average realized pricing improved in our bar and structural groups, those gains were more than offset by lower pricing in our sheet and plate groups. This decline was expected as lagging sheet prices from the fall flowed through in the quarter. Sheet prices began to rise in November and December, with most of that benefit expected to be realized in the first quarter.

Turning to steel products. We generated pretax earnings of $230 million, down from $319 million in the third quarter. Consistent with our steel mills segment, volumes declined sequentially across the steel products portfolio. Our rebar fabrication business accounted for roughly half of the quarter-over-quarter volume decline, in line with its typical seasonal volume trend.

Turning to our raw materials segment. We generated pretax earnings of approximately $24 million compared to $43 million for the prior quarter, primarily reflecting the impact of 2 scheduled outages at our DRI facilities. As we continue to advance our long-term multiyear growth strategy, 2025 CapEx totaled approximately $3.4 billion. With several major projects reaching completion this past year, we will see a meaningful step down in capital spending for 2026. Our current estimate for 2026 CapEx is approximately $2.5 billion. Growth-oriented investments will represent roughly 2/3 of our planned spending with our West Virginia sheet mill remaining the largest single use of capital.

Our growth efforts are also having a pronounced near-term impact on profitability. For 2025, pre-operating and start-up costs totaled $496 million. Looking ahead, we expect these costs to remain elevated in 2026 as several projects move beyond the start-up phase, offset by higher expenses associated with others, particularly bringing West Virginia online. Nucor remains committed to a balanced capital allocation framework anchored by 3 principles: maintaining a strong balance sheet, investing for value-creating growth and making meaningful direct returns to shareholders.

In the past 3 years alone, Nucor has invested over $9.5 billion through capital spending and acquisitions. During that same period, Nucor returned over $6 billion to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases, an amount equal to roughly 73% of Nucor's net earnings during that time frame. Even with these historically sizable investments and returns, we have preserved low leverage and substantial liquidity, supporting our industry-leading A- and A3 credit ratings from all 3 major rating agencies. It is worth noting that in December, our Board approved an increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.56 per share, extending our record of paying and increasing our regular quarterly dividend for 53 consecutive years.

Turning to our first quarter outlook. We expect higher consolidated earnings with improved results across all 3 operating segments. Shipment volumes should increase in each segment, supported by a healthy demand environment, typical positive seasonal trends and fewer outages relative to the fourth quarter. The steel mills segment is expected to drive the largest portion of the sequential earnings growth due to higher volumes and higher realized pricing. All product groups within this segment should see improved results with our sheet business contributing the most to the overall increase. In the steel products segment, we expect higher volumes and stable pricing. And in our raw materials segment, earnings are expected to improve modestly following the successful completion of planned DRI outages in the prior quarter. These gains will be partially offset by higher profit eliminations upon consolidation.

Before we take questions, I'd like to spend a minute on what has long been both a source and evidence of Nucor's resilient and sustainable business model, our ability to generate free cash flow across a wide range of market conditions. Last year, Nucor had negative free cash flow, something that is very rare in our company's history. But this event was not a surprise. It was a measured and intentional result that was the product of advancing our aggressive growth initiatives and strategy. We prudently positioned the company with ample liquidity ahead of these expected results to afford the ability to maintain our growth and return commitments.

With lower capital spending, incremental EBITDA from recently completed capital projects and improved market conditions as a backdrop, we expect Nucor to generate meaningfully higher free cash flow in the year ahead. We enter 2026 with healthy, favorably priced backlogs, supporting both higher shipments and better margins across most of our product lines, and we remain confident that with the broadest range of capabilities and solutions in the North American market, our driven and dedicated team is exceptionally well positioned to create value for our customers and shareholders.

And with that, we'd like to hear from you and answer any questions you may have. Operator, please open the line for questions.

