Oddity Tech Ltd. (ODD) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 20, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Maria Lycouris
Oran Holtzman - Co-Founder, CEO & Director
Lindsay Mann - Global Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Dara Mohsenian - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Anna Lizzul - BofA Securities, Research Division
Youssef Squali - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Andrew Boone - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Cory Carpenter - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Ryan MacDonald - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Scott Schoenhaus - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Bonnie Herzog - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Georgia Anderson - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Lauren Lieberman - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Brian Tanquilut - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. Welcome to ODDITY's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. We have allotted time for prepared remarks and Q&A. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Maria Lycouris, Investor Relations for ODDITY. Thank you. You may begin.

Maria Lycouris

Thank you, operator. I'm joined by Oran Holtzman, ODDITY's Co-Founder and CEO; and Lindsay Drucker Mann, ODDITY's Global CFO. Niv Price, ODDITY's CTO, will also be available for the question-and-answer session.

As a reminder, management's remarks on this call that do not concern past events are forward-looking statements. These may include predictions, expectations or estimates, including statements about ODDITY's business strategy, market opportunity, future financial performance and potential long-term success. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors. These factors are described under forward-looking statements in our earnings press release issued yesterday and in our most recent annual report on Form 20-F filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 25, 2025. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements, which speak only as of today.

Finally, during this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe are useful supplemental measures for understanding our business. Additional information about these non-GAAP financial measures, including their definitions are included in our earnings press release, which we issued yesterday.

I will now hand the call over to Oran.

Oran Holtzman
Co-Founder, CEO & Director

Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We delivered an outstanding third quarter with strong financial performance while achieving major milestones in our growth initiatives, including new brands, new markets, ODDITY LABS and tech innovation. Even in a challenging industry backdrop, ODDITY continues to deliver on its near-term financial commitments while building our future growth engines.

Our financial performance once again exceeds our targets as we have done every quarter for the last 10 quarters as a public company across revenue, profit and earnings, including 24% revenue growth and 24% growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share year-over-year despite category challenges. We are also once again raising our full year guidance.

We achieved a huge milestone this week with the official launch of METHODIQ, the third brand in the ODDITY platform. METHODIQ is our most ambitious endeavor. Our long-term goal for METHODIQ is not just to launch another great brand and a telehealth platform, but to transform a broken medical care system using the best treatment and the highest standards of care available to everyone. Our objective is to address medical issues with customized high efficacy treatment without the need of going to a doctor's office or getting lost in a drugstore.

Achieving our planned time line for METHODIQ is a great accomplishment and speaks to what makes ODDITY and our culture so strong. This is 4 years of heavy R&D in the making, supported by 2 acquisitions, including Voyage81 and Revela developed with what we believe is an unprecedented scale of over 20,000 real user trials for our product line.

METHODIQ is starting in dermatology, but our long-term goal is to expand into new medical domains in the future, and these are in development as we speak. Our launch into dermatology takes on a massive problem. Industry data shows that nearly 50 million Americans suffer from acne, nearly 30 million from hyperpigmentation and more than 30 million from eczema, and many of them are unsatisfied with the current options on the market. Drugstore products lack efficacy and personalization, going to a dermatologist is a high friction and the standard of care for these conditions has declined.

At the same time, dermatologists will tell you that issues like acne are curable. You only need to ensure that the person has the right products and that they stay compliant. To tackle this big challenge, we built an ambitious and complex brand. METHODIQ is expected to feature a huge line of 28 prescription and nonprescription products, which combine for more than 100 unique treatment combinations or precision personalization. We have aimed to optimize these products to balance between maximizing efficacy and minimizing side effects at the same time to provide the best-in-class beauty experience using the same standards for things like texture and scent that we have at IL MAKIAGE and SpoiledChild, while beating top benchmark competitors in their category based on internal data.

Our launch portfolio spans oral topical supplements and medical grade makeup that conceals whiteheads. Within the first 6 months of launch, we will be live in the market with 4 METHODIQ products formulated with ODDITY LABS molecules that are proprietary to us, addressing a range of skin conditions that include dark spots, papular scarring, eczema and skin filament. METHODIQ suites of vision tools was developed alongside our team of dermatologists to analyze visible skin features like breakouts and pigmentation to help our doctors' networks understand its user conditions. These vision models were built drawing on more than 1 million image of real individual with no facial skin condition, which we believe is the largest image data set of its kind and was curated from over 13 million facial images in ODDITY's database.

Users are delivered continuous care through METHODIQ's first-of-its-kind tracking app for weekly check-ins where our vision technology quantifies progress and gives update to the clinician, ensuring compliance and success. We soft launched METHODIQ in Q3 and went live with our formal launch earlier this week, exactly as planned. This launch includes a major media campaign showcasing METHODIQ's distinctive brand voice and inspires consumers to commit to the care. We are running a large-scale out-of-home takeover in New York City and a massive TikTok activation partnering with the biggest medical and skin influencers to create brand awareness and to build trust. This is the biggest TikTok activation in ODDITY's history. And as we have said, dermatology is just the beginning. We are working on additional medical domains for expansion, and we expect to have more to announce for METHODIQ's in the future.

Turning to IL MAKIAGE. Q3 were once again strong. IL MAKIAGE revenue grew double digit online. The brand remains on track to achieve our target of $1 billion revenue by 2028. We continue to show healthy expansion in international. At the ODDITY level, international revenue increased around 40% year-over-year in the first 9 months of 2025. We have successfully scaled in existing markets like U.K. and Australia, while conducting larger scale tests in new markets like France, Italy and Spain. We see huge opportunity in international markets and plan to further scale those across the board in 2026.

Skin remains a standout growth area and is on track to be around 40% of IL MAKIAGE brand revenue this year. Successful product innovation has been a key driver of skin, and we expect this will continue in 2026 with our solid lineup of new product launches.

Turning to SpoiledChild, which is having a strong year. We now expect the brand to cross $225 million of revenue in 2025. We are excited about our innovation lineup for 2026, including new product tests.

Moving to ODDITY LABS, where our very hard work over the last 2 years is starting to bear fruit. We have made significant improvement over the last year to our systems, infrastructure and teams, which we believe will translate into strong commercial discoveries. The near-term commercial impact for ODDITY LABS is increasing. We plan to have at least 8 products with labs molecule on the market in 2026 for our existing brands, including 4 products for METHODIQ and 4 for IL MAKIAGE and SpoiledChild. Beyond these 8, we have additional products planned for our brand launch, lastly on tech product innovation, which is the backbone of our business and an area of continuous investment.

Artificial intelligence has been a centerpiece of our tech platform since we first launched in 2018. Advances in large language models and generative AI, together with our large and growing proprietary data sets allow us to push the frontier of how we can use machine learning to drive direct-to-consumer. We have a range of initiatives in development on this front, including commerce agents that drive conversion and satisfaction, integrating these state-of-the-art models into our advertising creative and other customer-facing initiatives.

With that, I will hand it over to Lindsay.

Lindsay Mann
Global Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Oran. Turning to our third quarter financial results, which I'll refer to on an adjusted basis. You can find the full reconciliation to GAAP in our press release.

Q3 was another good quarter for us, setting us up for a record-breaking full year results in 2025. ODDITY's strong financial results continue to stand out relative to our competitors. This outperformance has been driven by the strength of our direct-to-consumer model and exposure to what we see as the key durable growth vectors in the industry, which are the consumer shift online and the migration towards high-efficacy products. We grew revenue by 24% in the third quarter to $148 million, exceeding our guidance for revenue growth of between 21% and 23%. The strength was driven by double-digit online growth at both IL MAKIAGE and SpoiledChild.

Net revenue was driven by an increase in orders, while average order value declined around 1%. Average order value was impacted by mix, including faster growth in international markets, which carry lower AOV. Repeat increased as a percentage of sales year-over-year, and our 12-month net revenue repeat cohort trends remained strong at north of 100%. Gross margins of 71.6% expanded 170 basis points versus the prior year and exceeded our guidance of 68%. We did experience some gross margin impact from the flow-through of higher tariffs during the period, but this was offset in part by cost efficiencies and favorable mix relative to our plan. We continue to expect tariff headwinds will remain manageable for the balance of 2025 and into 2026. And while we have the flexibility to take pricing as needed, we have no specific price increases planned to offset tariff-related inflation.

We delivered adjusted EBITDA of $29 million in the quarter, above our guidance of $26 million to $28 million. We continue to invest in our long-term growth engines, including our METHODIQ brand launch and other future brands, ODDITY LABS and our tech platform. We had higher-than-planned media costs in the quarter and have seen the media backdrop improve as we progressed into the fourth quarter. We delivered adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.40 compared to our guidance of $0.33 to $0.36. Adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude approximately $9 million of share-based compensation expense.

We delivered strong free cash flow of $90 million for the first 9 months of the year. This included around $16 million of outflows related to inventory as we built inventory from METHODIQ and modified our inventory shipment timing for tariff planning purposes. We ended the quarter with $793 million of cash, cash equivalents and investments on our balance sheet with an additional $200 million available on our undrawn credit facilities.

Turning to our outlook for 2025. After a strong first 9 months, we're on track for another record-breaking fiscal year and are once again raising full year guidance. We now expect full year 2025 net revenue will be between $806 million and $809 million, representing between 24% and 25% year-over-year growth. We expect gross margin will be approximately 72.5%. We expect adjusted EBITDA will be between $161 million and $163 million, and we expect adjusted diluted earnings per share will be between $2.10 and $2.12, assuming no share buybacks in 2025. This full year outlook includes our expectation that revenue in the fourth quarter will increase between 21% and 23% year-over-year. You can find more details on our Q4 outlook in our press release.

With that, I'll turn the call back to the operator for questions.