Okta, Inc. (OKTA) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 2, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Dave Gennarelli - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Todd McKinnon - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Brett Tighe - Chief Financial Officer
Eric Kelleher - President & COO

Conference Call Participants

Gray Powell - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Ittai Kidron - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
John DiFucci - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Fatima Boolani - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Joshua Tilton - Wolfe Research, LLC
Jonathan Ho - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Annick Baumann - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Shrenik Kothari - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Brad Zelnick - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Yun Suk Kim - Loop Capital Markets LLC, Research Division
Michael Cikos - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Tomer Zilberman - BofA Securities, Research Division
Joe Vandrick
Rudy Kessinger - D.A. Davidson & Co., Research Division
Gabriela Borges - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Dave Gennarelli
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Hi, everyone. Welcome to Okta's Third Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Webcast. I'm Dave Gennarelli, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at Okta. Presenting in today's meeting will be Todd McKinnon, our Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder; and Brett Tighe, our Chief Financial Officer. Eric Kelleher, our President and Chief Operating Officer, will join the Q&A portion of the meeting. At around the same time that the earnings press release hit the wire, we posted supplemental commentary to our IR website. Today's meeting will include forward-looking statements pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our financial outlook and market positioning.

Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date made. Information on factors that could affect our financial results is included in our filings with the SEC from time to time, including the section titled Risk Factors in our previously filed Form 10-Q. In addition, during today's meeting, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures. Though we may not state it explicitly during the meeting, all references to profitability are non-GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures are in addition to and not a substitute for or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures and a discussion of the limitations of using non-GAAP financial measures versus their closest GAAP equivalents are available in our earnings press release. You may also find more detailed information in our supplemental financial materials, which include trended financial statements and key metrics posted on our Investor Relations website. In today's meeting, we will quote a number of numeric or growth changes as we discuss our financial performance. And unless otherwise noted, each such reference represents a year-over-year comparison. And now I'd like to turn the meeting over to Todd McKinnon. Todd?

Todd McKinnon
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thanks, Dave, and thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. We're pleased to report another solid quarter of results. In Q3, we experienced strength with large customers and Okta Workforce upsells, particularly with new products like Okta Identity Governance. These results are driven by our unique ability to solve complex identity challenges across the entire enterprise landscape. In my comments today, I'm going to expand on our success with new products. I'll also share how Okta Secures AI, which represents a significant new opportunity and a catalyst for growth. Brett will then cover our financial performance and provide an update on the progress we're seeing with the expanded go-to-market specialization. Okta's new products continue to make meaningful contributions to our results.

Customers that are frustrated trying to manage sometimes dozens of different identity systems are turning to Okta for a modern, neutral and unified identity platform. We have been investing in innovation and our portfolio of new products are allowing customers to dramatically reduce complexity while significantly improving their security posture. New products include Okta Identity Governance, Okta Privileged Access, Identity Security Posture Management, Identity Threat Protection with Okta AI, Okta Device Access and Fine Grained Authorization. Many of these new products can now be delivered as part of product suites, which provide more value and further simplify the way customers can do business with Okta.

We believe these new products will continue to provide incredible value to our customers and will be a growth driver for many years to come. Earlier in Q3, we had a record number of customers and partners come to Oktane in Las Vegas to hear how Okta secures AI. The simple way to think about it is that Okta is helping customers both build more secure AI agents and manage their AI agents in a secure and scalable way. The emergence of agentic technology is redefining the identity security landscape. AI security is identity security. AI agents represent a new powerful identity type. However, without proper security governance, they are also highly vulnerable. Securing AI agents and nonhuman identities is not a feature. It's essential for any businesses looking to safely scale their adoption and deployment of AI.

If an organization does not secure its agents today, they risk undoing years of security improvements and leaving themselves vulnerable to new identity-based attacks. Okta has prioritized our efforts to focus on helping customers solve this business imperative and capture what we believe will be the next catalyst for growth and meaningful market within the identity security space. Okta's neutral and unified platform, coupled with our installed base of over 20,000 customers, positions us best to become the identity layer for AI agents. That's why we're so excited about the recent launch of Auth0 for AI agents. Auth0 for AI agents allows customers to build secure agents, APIs and users more effortlessly across their B2B, B2C and internal app ecosystem.

Based on our conversations, customers are expecting Okta to deliver the capabilities to help build and manage their AI agents. They are already turning to us to help guide them through the new security challenges that AI brings. Over just the past few months, we have experienced a surge in inbound interest for our Agentic Security solutions to manage agents, Okta for AI agents. These organizations are looking for a single control plane to observe and manage agents of all types in a way that offers flexibility as the technology continues to evolve. They also want a solution that gives them control like the ability to embed fine-grain access into every agent. Okta is here to deliver. The excitement is real and the interest is tangible. It's very early days on this front, but we have already been engaged with over 100 of our current customers, which combined represent over $200 million in existing ARR.

To give you a sense of the interest, I want to share a great early win with Okta for AI agents. It's with a financial services customer that is in the midst of deploying AI agents across their operations. Given the sensitive nature of their data and the need to remain compliant with the regulatory environment, securing these agents was not optional. It was critical. They selected Okta for AI agents to secure their AI footprint and provide them with enhanced visibility and remediation capabilities for the agent identities, enforce access control, identity governance and threat detection. It was a great win-win. Okta is helping the customer to safely deploy AI across their business and the addition of Okta for AI agents represented a significant ACV uplift compared to their prior contract.

We are successfully executing on our strategy to capture this emerging opportunity, and this deal demonstrates our ability to lead the market by moving beyond securing human identities to securing agentic identities. Okta is the essential identity layer to help customers build, observe and manage AI agents. We're the only company that is able to secure AI with a modern and neutral platform, allowing us to deliver even greater value to our customers. In addition to helping customers build and manage AI agents, Okta is driving the industry to an architecture where identity is more valuable and more secure. Last quarter, you heard me talk about Okta's role in the development of cross-app access, which brings visibility and control to both agent-driven and app-to-app interactions. This allows IT teams to decide what apps are connecting and what information AI agents can access. I'm excited to share that as of last week, cross-app Access is now an extension of a model context protocol known as MCP, which helps validate that identity providers like Okta will act as the indispensable control plane for the AI enterprise.

To wrap things up, we're pleased with another solid quarter of results, and we believe we're best positioned to win the exciting new market segment of securing AI. In this rapidly evolving environment, organizations of all sizes are looking to Okta to deliver modern and scalable identity security solutions that can seamlessly integrate across their networks. We are confident in our strategy and enthusiastic about the momentum of the business as we head into our seasonally biggest quarter of the year. I want to thank the entire Okta team for their tireless effort and also thank our loyal customers and partners who put their trust in us every day. And now here's Brett to cover the financial commentary and talk about how we're positioned for long-term profitable growth.

Brett Tighe
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Todd, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. My commentary will provide insights into our Q3 performance and then move into our outlook for Q4 and FY '26. We remain pleased with the overall progress we're making to further specialize our go-to-market teams. Importantly, we continue to see improvement in sales productivity. Partially driving this is our average AE tenure, which has remained strong on the back of healthy attrition levels. The continued positive trends we are seeing across our go-to-market KPIs reinforce our confidence that this specialization strategy is the right path to accelerate long-term growth.

Another area of sales specialization where Okta has seen strength over the past few years is the public sector. All things considered, the government shutdown didn't meaningfully change the outcome of our Q3 results. We remain very optimistic about expanding our presence with U.S. government agencies as well as state and local agencies as we move forward. Over the past couple of years, we've done well to improve our margins to healthy levels while making investments for growth. Our disciplined investment areas remain clear: improving sales productivity through go-to-market specialization, relentless product innovation and further leveraging our channel partners. More recently, we've expanded our investment areas to drive future growth by increasing the number of quota-carrying sales reps.

Our recent results and business momentum give us confidence to add sales capacity in order to service the demand next year and beyond. Moving on to our balance sheet. In September, the 2025 convertible notes reached maturity, and we settled the remaining principal amount of $510 million in cash. We had another great quarter of cash flow in Q3 and ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet consisting of nearly $2.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We regularly evaluate our capital structure and capital allocation priorities, which includes investing in the business, M&A and opportunistic repurchasing of the 2026 notes, of which $350 million remains outstanding. Now let's turn to our business outlook. For Q4 and FY '26, we continue to take a prudent approach to forward guidance that factors in current market conditions.

For the fourth quarter of FY '26, we expect total revenue growth of 10%, current RPO growth of 9%, non-GAAP operating margin of 25% and free cash flow margin of approximately 31%. For the full year FY '26, we are raising our outlook and now expect total revenue growth of 11%, non-GAAP operating margin of 26% and a free cash flow margin of approximately 29%. We will issue FY '27 guidance on our Q4 earnings call, which will provide a more informed view of FY '27, especially as we exit this quarter, which is seasonally the biggest quarter of the year. To wrap things up, we're enthusiastic about the trends we're seeing across the business from the adoption of new products to customer interest and how Okta secures AI. This gives us confidence to continue making critical investments to accelerate top line growth. We're pleased with another solid quarter of results. We now look to close out FY '26 strong and build on this year's success. With that, I'll turn it back to Dave for Q&A. Dave?