On Holding AG (ONON) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 12, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Caspar Coppetti - Co-Founder & Executive Co-Chairman
Martin Hoffmann - CEO & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Paul Lejuez - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Alexandra Straton - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Krista Kerr Zuber
Samuel Poser - Williams Trading, LLC, Research Division
M. Liu - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Aubrey Tianello - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Rakesh Patel - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and good morning to our investor community. Thank you for joining On's 2025 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. With me today on the call are On's Executive Co-Chairman and Co-Founder, Caspar Coppetti; and CEO and CFO, Martin Hoffmann. Before we begin, I will briefly remind everyone that today's call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations and beliefs only and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Please refer to our annual report on Form 20-F for the 2024 fiscal year filed with the SEC on 4th March 2025 for a detailed explanation of such risks and uncertainties. We will further reference certain non-IFRS financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin. These measures are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information presented in accordance with IFRS accounting standards. Please refer to today's release for a reconciliation to the most comparable IFRS measures. We will begin with Caspar, followed by Martin, leading through today's prepared remarks, after which we are looking forward to opening the call to a Q&A session.

With that, I'm very happy to turn the call over to Caspar.

Caspar Coppetti
Co-Founder & Executive Co-Chairman

Thank you, and a very warm welcome, everyone, to our third quarter 2025 earnings call. It is great to be back on this call with all of you and to give you an update on On's global success, which is driven by the exceptional heat around the On brand, our product innovation pipeline and our accelerating profitability. Today, we're thrilled to share another outstanding quarter for On. Our mission to ignite the human spirit through movement is resonating worldwide and across multiple categories. It is powered by an innovation engine that continues to unlock human potential and create champions on the world's biggest stages.

This quarter's performance is the direct result of our premium strategy in action, delivering incredibly strong growth and record profitability. Net sales in the quarter approached CHF 800 million, growing 24.9% year-over-year on a reported basis and by 34.5% at constant exchange rates. Through our commitment to premiumness, a commitment that runs from our products through our entire value chain and driven by our pursuit of operational excellence, we have also delivered exceptionally strong gross profit and adjusted EBITDA margins.

Behind the results is a story of global momentum, how constant innovation, community building and cultural relevance are coming together to elevate the On brand as the benchmark for performance and design in premium sportswear. This success is exceptionally broad-based with significant growth contributions from across our portfolio in performance and lifestyle, footwear and apparel, proving the global appeal of our brand.

The spirit of On was everywhere this quarter from the crowds lining up for the openings of our new stores in Tokyo, Palo Alto or Zurich to the thousands of people who came to see how LightSpray products are manufactured during Berlin Marathon to our athletes winning major titles across our entire portfolio of sports from track and field to trail running, to triathlon, and tennis. On strongly connected with audiences around the world. But nowhere was this connection in energy felt more strongly than in Asia Pacific, our fastest-growing region. The momentum there is extraordinary with the fourth consecutive quarter of triple-digit constant currency growth.

In September, Tokyo became our showcase as the city hosted this year's World Athletics championships. On's new Ginza store is one of the crown jewels in our retail collection, and the world champs provide the perfect opportunity to express On's innovation and ambition. Geordie Beamish, Ditaji Kambundji and Bella Whittaker claimed On's first ever track and field gold medals. These successes matter. Consumers are increasingly watching how brands perform in competition, and On is exceptionally well positioned.

The ultimate proof point for our advanced footwear technologies came 10 days ago when Hellen Obiri won the New York City Marathon against the stacked field of Olympic and World Champions, breaking the 22-year-old course record by almost 3 minutes. We are incredibly proud that she chose to race in the Cloudboom Strike LightSpray. This win clearly demonstrates that our newest technology is being trusted and adopted by the world's best athletes in the most iconic races.

Pictures like these define what we mean by athlete first innovation. Our strategy is clear. Technology is proven at the highest level of competition and then refined to deliver the best experience for every type of run. This elite credibility flows directly into our core performance running franchises, Cloudsurfer, Cloudmonster, and Cloudrunner. These are the engines that have won millions of fans and driven our significant sustained growth in the run category, 2025 has been a testament to this strategy.

We successfully reenergized the Cloudsurfer franchise. First was the Cloudsurfer 2 in the spring and now with the new Cloudsurfer Max this summer. The commercial momentum is immediate and clear. The newly launched Cloudsurfer Max ranked among the top 5 selling models with key run specialty partners in its very first month. This sets the stage for 2026. We are already seeing a strong order book for the new Cloudrunner 3 and Cloudmonster 3 launching in Q1, while Fall/Winter '26 will see the launch of the new model Cloudrunner Max, showcasing a significant leap in engineering and foam innovations.

And on top of that, On's most groundbreaking technology, LightSpray, will help redefine the category and elevate our entire running assortment. In spring/summer '26, we will bring this championship level technology to everyday runners for the first time with the LightSpray Cloudmonster Hyper. This is our innovation process in action, continuously and obsessively making the best possible products that push the limits of performance. Of course, On's mission goes far beyond running. We are witnessing a unique moment where performance and innovation are key drivers for fashion and the cultural zeitgeist.

On is uniquely positioned to both drive and benefit from this trend. This quarter, our collaboration with Zendaya introduced the Cloudzone Moon, blending On's design innovation with refined expressive style. In tennis, our partnership with Roger Federer has already connected the sport to a much broader audience. This quarter, we welcomed the music artist, Burna Boy, to our tennis lifestyle brand, who is resonating strongly with a young demographic. These cultural moments are accelerating our connection and traction with young aspirational consumers, including teens, cementing On as a global symbol of modern performance and style that resonates deeply with both her and him.

To summarize, as ever, On is carving its own path. Our premium strategy is working, and we are executing on our vision with precision and discipline. Our relentless focus on innovation has built a durable multidimensional growth engine, an engine that is built for the long run. Fueled by our accelerating global brand heat and awareness, the foundation for our next chapter of premium growth is stronger than ever.

With that, Martin will share more on our strategic and financial highlights in the quarter and our significantly raised outlook for the year.

Martin Hoffmann
CEO & CFO

Thank you, Caspar. By staying true to our vision and executing with discipline, we are delivering remarkable consistent success. This is aspiring to experience, whether on the road, the track, the trail or the court, in the term or in the streets, whether on the feet or on the body, one has become a true toe-to-head partner in our customers' lives. That connection makes our entire team incredibly proud and grateful.

What sets us apart is our premium position. Our vision is and will remain to be the most premium global sportswear brand. Premium is an emotion formed in the minds of our fans. We earn it by consistently exceeding their expectations in the moments that matter. They know premium when they find it because they have seen it. This quarter, Tokyo brought that vision to life. The atmosphere was electric. It was 3 years since my last visit.

And in that time, the team has more than doubled in size and even further elevated how we show up in this vital market. What I saw in Japan was the clearest expression yet of On's premium strategy, a brand that feels completely at home in a culture defined by craftsmanship, precision and design excellence. That harmony is perfectly captured in our new flagship store in Ginza. It opened to record demand, delivering the highest monthly sales across our entire retail fleet in October.

The space embodies what premium means for On, performance elevated through design and delivered with care and consistency. While Japan set the tone, the broader Asia Pacific region demonstrated the sheer scale of what's possible. Across China, Korea and Southeast Asia, we are connecting with a new generation of younger, deeply design-conscious customers, proving the global appetite for On's premium performance approach.

We saw this again in Bangkok, where our first store opened to the highest daily sales of any store opening in our history. The global demand is a direct result of our customer strategy. Our community is growing, but also deepening, becoming more diverse, more active and more connected across all our verticals. While brand awareness is accelerating, the clearest metric of our success is loyalty. Engaged fans are returning at higher rates and crucially buying across more categories, embracing the full breadth of our product universe.

Apparel is an important driver of this evolution. It's fundamentally reshaping how people view and enter our brand. It's becoming a key acquisition channel, attracting a growing share of first-time customers by also building lasting value as apparel shoppers buy more frequently and with bigger baskets. We are also seeing a clear shift towards younger customers in apparel, highlighting a sizable and well-defined long-term opportunity.

Importantly, we are not building apparel as an add-on to our footwear business, but as a company within the company, serving the same communities, but with unique product offering and customer experience. As a result, apparel is driving incremental high-value growth across all our channels. Operating at this level with such broad-based strength sets an incredible high standard and it requires flawless execution. This is where our focus on operational excellence and technology is delivering profound results.

We are transforming the way we work. We have structurally reduced lead times and enhanced how we plan and run the business with intelligent tools powering our integrated planning. We are building a faster and more agile company that is a stronger partner for suppliers, retailers and consumers. More and more, AI becomes a core component to how we operate across all areas of the business and engage with our fans. All of this is deeply rooted in our culture of innovation and excellence, and it's the daily passion of our amazing team that makes all of this work.

From the cheering zone at the Marathon in New York to the LightSpray Innovation Lab, from casual shows to the shop floors of run specialty partners, their energy is what sets us apart. Thank you so much, team. Our incredible brand momentum and precise execution continued through Q3, delivering another exceptional set of results. We achieved record net sales of CHF 794.4 million, growing 24.9% year-over-year on a reported basis and 34.5% at constant currency.

This outstanding top line growth fueled record profitability. The gross profit margin of 65.7%, an adjusted EBITDA margin of 22.6% and nearly 50% year-over-year adjusted EBITDA growth. Our DTC channel once again delivered exceptional growth while driving superior profitability. Net sales reached CHF 314.7 million, an increase of 27.6% year-over-year on a reported basis and 37.5% at constant currency. Our success is driven by strong synergies between our e-commerce and retail ecosystems.

Omnichannel customers are more loyal and deliver materially higher lifetime value, validating our seamless premium experience. This experience is brought to life in our flagship stores. A recent highlight for me was the opening of our new Zurich flagship, a celebration of our Swiss heritage in a stunning downtown location. Alongside our new stores, our established fleet continues to excel. We saw standout contributions in Q3 from key locations, including Cat Street in Tokyo, Miami and the Champs-Élysées in Paris, proving the productivity and longevity of our retail investments.

Our brand strength is mirrored in our wholesale channel. Net sales reached CHF 479.6 million, increasing by 23.3% year-over-year on a reported basis and by 32.5% at constant currency. This performance reflects sustained elevated demand from our key account partners. The enthusiasm for our future pipeline is clear. The fall/winter 2026 sell-in has kicked off with ongoing strong momentum, and our building order book for 2026 already reflects our partners' deep confidence in our endless innovation.

Turning to our regional development. In the Americas, net sales reached CHF 436.2 million, growing 10.3% year-over-year on a reported basis and by 21% at constant currency. This quarter was a pivotal test of our premium strategy as our U.S. price increases came into effect. The results confirmed our view. Demand remained incredibly strong for our premium offerings, clear validation of our brand's pricing power and the impact of our full price strategy.

This gives us tremendous confidence heading into the holiday season where our premium positioning and unwavering commitment to full price selling will be a significant competitive advantage. Europe, Middle East, and Africa delivered an outstanding quarter with net sales reaching CHF 213.3 million, up 28.6% year-over-year on a reported basis and 33% at constant currency. Our performance highlights the breadth of the brand heat in the region. We are seeing exceptional demand in the U.K., which has firmly established itself as one of our largest global markets, incredible momentum in newer markets like France and Italy and the sustained reacceleration in growth across the German-speaking region.

Asia Pacific continues its phenomenal growth, delivering net sales of CHF 144.9 million, up 94.2% year-over-year on a reported basis and an incredible 109.2% at constant currency. APAC is now approaching 20% of our total sales. What was once a new frontier has become a major engine for the brand. The remarkable demand is broad-based with continued triple-digit growth in Greater China, South Korea and Southeast Asia, amplifying the success we see in Japan.

This increasing regional balance is a core strength, a direct reflection of our global strategy and proof of our ability to drive high-quality growth across all markets. Moving to performance by product. Footwear remain our core engine of growth. Net sales from this category reached CHF 731.3 million, an increase of 21.1% year-over-year on a reported basis and 30.4% at constant currency.

This success confirms our expanding role in the lives of our fans across every part of their day. In performance, the Cloudmonster continues to win new fans and our latest innovations like the Cloudsurfer Max and Cloudboom Max are off to exceptional starts, driving strong results in key sporting goods and run specialty distribution. Meanwhile, in Lifestyle, the Cloudtilt, the Cloud and the ROGER continue to see tremendous demand.

This combination of elite performance products and the distinctive edge in the lifestyle segment is what sets on apart. Our apparel category is rapidly establishing itself as a significant stand-alone growth pillar. Net sales reached CHF 50.1 million, an increase of 86.9% year-over-year on a reported basis and an amazing 100.2% at constant currency. This performance was capped by a major operational milestone as we sold over 1 million apparel units in a single quarter for the first time.

This success is rooted in a global and multichannel expansion with a meaningful and balanced increase in apparel share across all channels and regions. Now we will move down the P&L. We delivered an outstanding 65.7% gross profit margin, up 510 basis points year-over-year. This result is materially ahead of our expectations and reflects the power and momentum of our premium brand position. Yet it is important to understand the components of this result as it also includes some temporary and one-off factors that should not be extrapolated.

First, the quarter includes a positive onetime adjustment of approximately 200 basis points. This relates to lower-than-anticipated freight and other costs. Throughout half year 1, we saw these lower costs emerging, partly from successful negotiations and scale benefits, but we prudently continue to accrue at our higher prior levels. Now in Q3, we have confirmed these efficiencies are sustainable and are updating our cost assumptions. This onetime adjustment, therefore, represents the release of those accruals related to the first half of the year.

Second, the timing lag between our U.S. price increases and the full impact of additional U.S. tariffs led to a slightly positive margin effect in Q3, which should be considered a temporary benefit. Third, the current devaluation of the U.S. dollar compared to the Swiss franc since early April drives a positive gross profit margin impact of approximately 100 basis points.

Crucially, even after accounting for these effects, our underlying gross profit margin is significantly above our communicated long-term target. This is the result of the structural strength of our business and the great work of our team. Our increasing D2C share, our premium positioning, durable operational efficiencies and economies of scale. These structural effects are expected to be sustained, are expected to be reflected in our future results.

We also delivered an outstanding Q3 adjusted EBITDA margin of 22.6%, up 370 basis points year-over-year, corresponding to an absolute adjusted EBITDA of CHF 179.9 million. SG&A, excluding share-based compensation, was 47.1% of net sales in Q3, up from 46% in the prior year, reflecting a deliberate decision to invest in future growth through marketing and our global retail expansion.

Importantly, we are funding these strategic investments largely through our operational efficiencies. Our focus on excellence has structurally improved our distribution cost baseline, which continues to decline as a percentage of net sales. This demonstrates our flexibility to thoughtfully reinvest in high-return areas that fuel our long-term brand growth. While the current FX environment positively impacted our gross profit margin, it negatively impacted SG&A and ultimately, also our adjusted EBITDA margin.

Moving to our balance sheet. We continue to demonstrate exceptional capital efficiency. Capital expenditures were CHF 20.5 million or 2.6% of net sales, an improvement from 3% in the prior year. As of the end of Q3, our inventory stood at CHF 380.6 million. As in Q2, inventory volume grew faster than value, ensuring we are fully prepared for Q4 by reflecting our new operational efficiencies. The proof of this new efficiency is in the results.

Our cash conversion cycle improved again year-over-year. This disciplined working capital management, combined with our strong operational performance, fueled substantial operating cash flow of CHF 157.3 million in Q3. As a result, our cash balance grew substantially, ending the quarter in an exceptional strong position at CHF 961.8 million. With that, let's look ahead. The consistent success our strategic focus and exceptional execution has delivered throughout the year fuel our confidence to deliver a strong finish to the year.

Our brand momentum is undeniable, and the first weeks of Q4 have already shown our strategic gains. Alongside major athlete victories, including Solveig Løvseth, IRONMAN World Championship win in Kona and Joao Fonseca becoming the youngest tennis champion at the Swiss Indoors since 1989, we have created moments that continue to elevate the brand globally. We launched the Cloudsolo, our first ever co-created product with LOEWE and introduced a new capsule collection with Sky High Farms Standard around the Cloud 6.

We entered the GCC market with the opening of our first store in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia just yesterday and opened our first store in Seoul, securing a beautiful ultra-premium location in the Hyundai Mall. We were thrilled with our performance during Golden Week in China and our global holiday campaign, gifting movement is off to a great start, confirming our momentum as we head into the end of the year. This is how our vision comes to life, winning in performance, elevating our brand and showing up in a credible, consistent, and aspirational way for our ever-expanding communities.

Therefore, we are raising our 2025 guidance across all line items. We now expect constant currency net sales to grow by 34% year-over-year, well ahead of our previous guidance of at least 31%. At current spot rates, our constant currency growth guidance implies reported net sales reached CHF 2.98 billion. Alongside this top line raise, we now expect a gross profit margin of around 62.5%, a meaningful increase versus our previous guidance of 60.5% to 61%.

As outlined before, this new ambition reflects our commitment to full price sales during the holiday season. Sustainable structural efficiencies rooted in our elevating premium positioning, economies of scale and increasing D2C share as well as the current FX, tariffs and freight cost environment. On adjusted EBITDA, the exceptional gross profit generation allows us to do 3 things at once: absorb material foreign exchange headwinds on our more Swiss franc heavy cost base, simultaneously accelerate strategic investments into our brand, technology and innovation pipeline and to raise our profitability forecast for the year.

We now expect an adjusted EBITDA margin of above 18%, a clear step-up from our previous guidance of 17% to 17.5%. Looking beyond 2025, the proven impact of our strategic building blocks and clarity of our long-term strategy provide us with the baseline for continued exceptional momentum. This is further supported by the strength of our product pipeline, validated by our existing order book, driving a trajectory well ahead of the targets outlined at our Investor Day in October 2023.

As you will recall, we communicated our goal to double net sales by 2026, implying a 26% net sales constant currency growth CAGR over the 3 years. We are on track to complete the first 2 full years of our 3-year plan within excess of 33% constant currency growth each year. This sustained and material overachievement gives us the confidence and visibility to update our long-term outlook as we look ahead to the final year of our plan. We now expect the 3-year constant currency CAGR from 2023 to 2026 to reach at least 30%.

This implies at least 23% growth in 2026 based on our current outlook for 2025. This isn't just about exceeding targets. It's a testament to the unparalleled momentum of our brand, the strength of our strategy and the incredible dedication of our entire team. We are not just meeting expectations. We are redefining what's possible in the sportswear market. As we look at our midterm profitability ambition, the significantly higher gross profit margin achievement expected for this year provides us with a strong baseline and increased confidence in our ability to exceed our stated gross profit margin target for 2026 despite the full impact of tariffs next year.

Importantly, this allows us to continue to invest meaningfully into the brand, fueling our global momentum by driving even more progress around new technologies and AI and ultimately, to build an even stronger foundation for continued growth in 2026 and beyond. In line with our established guidance cadence, we will provide a formal guidance update in March when we share our Q4 and full year results.

To summarize, we are thrilled with the continued strength of our brand. We head into the holiday season with high momentum and conviction in our plan, which allows us to look beyond the immediate horizon towards our next phase, or as we like to say, to dream on. Again, a huge thank you to our teams around the world for their incredible execution and for making all of this possible.

And with that, Caspar and I are happy to take your questions.