Occidental Petroleum Corporation (OXY) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 11, 2025 1:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Jordan Tanner - Vice President of Investor Relations
Vicki Hollub - President, CEO & Director
Richard Jackson - Senior VP & COO
Sunil Mathew - Senior VP & CFO
Kenneth Dillon - Senior VP and President of International Oil & Gas Operations

Conference Call Participants

Douglas George Blyth Leggate - Wolfe Research, LLC
Arun Jayaram - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Neil Mehta - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Paul Cheng - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
James West - Melius Research LLC
Matthew Portillo - Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. Securities, LLC, Research Division
Neal Dingmann - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Leo Mariani - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and welcome to Occidental's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note that today's event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Jordan Tanner, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Jordan Tanner
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Rocco. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for participating in Occidental's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. On the call with us today are Vicki Hollub, President and Chief Executive Officer; Sunil Mathew, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Richard Jackson, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ken Dillon, Senior Vice President and President, International Oil and Gas Operations.

This afternoon, we will refer to slides available on the Investors section of our website. The presentation includes a cautionary statement on Slide 2 regarding forward-looking statements that will be made on the call this afternoon. We'll also reference a few non-GAAP financial measures today. Reconciliations to the nearest corresponding GAAP measure can be found in the schedules to our earnings release and on our website.

I'll now turn the call over to Vicki.

Vicki Hollub
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Jordan, and good afternoon, everyone. I want to take a moment to recognize Veterans Day and express our deep gratitude to all veterans and their families for their service. Today, I will address our recently announced sale of OxyChem, outline the strategic rationale and highlight our third quarter performance. Richard will provide details on our oil and gas operations, and Sunil will review our third quarter financials, fourth quarter guidance and considerations for the year ahead.

The sale of OxyChem is a pivotal step in our transformation. The decision was driven by the scale, quality and diversity of the oil and gas portfolio we have built over the last decade. Since 2015, we have more than doubled our total resource potential and our production, going from total resource of 8 billion barrels of oil equivalent to 16.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent and from production of 650,000 BOE per day to over 1.4 million BOE per day. We now have a higher-quality portfolio with Oxy's lowest-ever geopolitical risk as we have shifted the percentage of our oil and gas production from 50% domestic to 83% domestic.

And our portfolio has a development runway of 30-plus years that includes high-return, short-cycle, higher-decline unconventional assets complemented by solid return, lower-decline mid-cycle development opportunities in our conventional oil and gas assets. Our substantial oil and gas runway, along with our demonstrated expertise in maximizing resource recovery, created the foundation for accelerating value to our shareholders through the divestiture of OxyChem.

The proceeds will be used to immediately strengthen our balance sheet, allowing us to significantly deleverage and achieve our principal debt target of less than $15 billion. This will reinforce our financial resilience and agility to navigate changing market conditions. With greater financial flexibility, we can broaden our return of capital program and accelerate shareholder returns. This will enhance our approach to delivering value to our shareholders by increasing cash returns and continuing to rebalance enterprise value through net debt reduction.

Our strengthened financial foundation will enable us to accelerate the development of our industry-leading oil and gas portfolio by focusing capital on our Permian unconventional assets, including unconventional CO2 floods, along with our Gulf of America waterfloods and in the future, our Baqiyah gas and condensate discovery in Oman. We're excited about all the opportunities ahead to apply our subsurface expertise for greater resource recovery and the opportunities to advance our various low-decline enhanced oil recovery projects, particularly our CO2 EOR projects.

Now turning to the third quarter. Our teams delivered another strong quarter of operational performance, generating $3.2 billion in operating cash flow and $1.5 billion in free cash flow before working capital. Notably, we exceeded last year's third-quarter operating cash flow despite WTI prices that were more than $10 per barrel lower in the third quarter of this year.

Our team's continued focus on cost management and efficiency improvements also led to our lowest quarterly lease operating expense per barrel across our full oil and gas segment since 2021. This ongoing improvement in portfolio and operational performance underscores the quality of our resources and the exceptional caliber of our teams who continue to bring forward value by delivering more with less.

In the third quarter, our oil and gas business produced approximately 1.47 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, exceeding the high end of our guidance range. The Permian Basin contributed 800,000 BOE per day, which is the highest quarterly Permian production in Oxy's history. The Rockies also posted outstanding results, thanks to strong new well performance and stable base operations.

Additionally, our Gulf of America assets outperformed the high end of guidance, benefiting from favorable weather and achieving the highest uptime in our operating history. Our Midstream and Marketing segment delivered another incredible quarter, generating positive adjusted earnings and surpassing the high end of guidance. Our teams expertly navigated market volatility to maximize margins through strategic gas marketing, helping to offset challenging gas price realizations.

Higher sulfur prices in Al Hosn further contributed to the quarter's results. As shown in our third quarter results, we remain focused on generating free cash flow at lower oil prices and maintaining flexibility in our capital and development programs to support near- and long-term value creation.

Richard will now provide more details on our third quarter operational highlights and how we are positioned to generate stronger returns and higher free cash flow.

Richard Jackson
Senior VP & COO

Thank you, Vicki. I appreciate the opportunity to share the progress we are making in our operations and how we are positioning our plans going into 2026. In all parts of our oil and gas business, we are making significant advancements through a focus on 3 key areas: resource improvement, cost efficiency and operating ability to generate free cash flow across a range of oil price scenarios.

Today, I will focus on our Permian operations, where there have been several meaningful updates across these 3 areas. I look forward to sharing more from our other teams in future calls. First, let me begin by highlighting our strong third quarter results. As Vicki noted, domestic production exceeded guidance with strong contributions from all business units in the Permian, Rockies and Gulf of America.

This strong performance and record results were achieved while sustaining our outlook for lower capital and improved operating costs for the year. Compared to our original 2025 guidance, we have reduced capital expenditures by $300 million and operating costs by $170 million. We appreciate our team's continued efforts to exceed expectations.

Importantly, this performance is part of our continued track record of cost efficiency. We recently highlighted that since 2023, we have realized $2 billion in annualized cost savings across our U.S. onshore operations, driven by continuous operational improvements in drilling, completions and operating expense categories as well as a value-focused supply chain management approach. We are seeing similar improvements across all of our operating teams and look forward to these efficiencies continuing into 2026.

Building more on Vicki's introductory comments, we have made important progress in our organic oil and gas resource improvement across the portfolio. Today, I will focus on the Permian as it plays an essential role in our near- and long-term results. We have recently expanded our Permian resource base by 2.5 billion BOE, which now represents approximately 70% of Oxy's total resources of approximately 16.5 billion BOE.

We achieved this organic resource expansion through subsurface characterization and the application of advanced recovery and technologies. Our deep Permian resource is both low cost and provides operational flexibility to support free cash flow across a wide range of oil price scenarios. When combined with our ongoing cost efficiencies and technical recovery advancement, this places the Permian as a core value driver for Oxy's future.

To start, in the Delaware Basin, we continue to be a leader in new well performance across both our primary and secondary benches. Importantly, our secondary bench wells outperformed the industry average by 10% when compared to all benches, primary and secondary in the basin. In addition to improving productivity, these secondary benches also enable us to efficiently utilize existing infrastructure that was built to support our primary development.

As a result, we have extended our resources through increased secondary bench development while lowering our overall development costs, leading to a 16% lower capital intensity since 2022. Additionally, over the last few years, we have significantly transformed our position and performance in the Midland Basin. Today, these development projects are incredibly competitive in our Oxy portfolio.

This process began with a basin-wide subsurface characterization initiative and targeted development program to more fully understand the resource potential in the basin. We then strengthened our acreage position and achieved the scale needed for operational efficiencies through the CrownRock acquisition. Today, the combined Oxy and legacy CrownRock teams are delivering industry-leading well costs and performance, driven by both continued operational improvements and refined subsurface designs.

Since 2023, our new wells have shown a 22% increase in 6-month cumulative oil production per 1,000 feet, while the industry average has declined about 5% over the same period. We have also reduced well costs by 38% since 2023. These step changes have created an expanded deep bench opportunity, allowing us to organically add top-tier Barnett resources across 115,000 acres in our Midland and Central Basin Platform operating areas. Again, we highlight that our new well performance in the Barnett is outperforming the industry average by 18% since 2020.

Another resource opportunity and key differentiator for Oxy is the expansion of enhanced oil recovery into our unconventional shale. As a leader in conventional CO2 EOR, we are leveraging our decades-long investment and expertise into these assets. Since 2017, we have advanced unconventional EOR in our Permian, U.S. Permian and Rockies business units, completing multiple demonstrations where we have achieved positive and consistent results.

These projects have delivered over 45% oil uplift, but we believe with continued optimization, our commercial projects have the capability to deliver up to 100% production uplift. We are now moving into commercial development with 3 initial projects and a current pipeline of 30 more ready for development. These mid-cycle projects offer low decline rates and competitive returns. Our unique and sizable Permian Basin CO2 infrastructure gives us an advantage as we scale these developments over time.

Today, this represents a resource opportunity of over 2 billion BOE. We also continue to advance our existing conventional EOR assets with approximately 2 billion BOEs of undeveloped resources with low development costs, these mid-cycle projects are also meaningful as part of our future resources. Recent improvements in cost structure, including $80 million of our 2025 domestic operating cost reductions continue to improve the returns and investment priority within our portfolio.

Beyond CO2 EOR, we are progressing a suite of complementary recovery technologies, including infill drilling, precision well placement and spacing, next-generation frac and other methods of EOR. We believe our ability to organically expand our low-cost resource base through subsurface characterization, continued cost efficiency and advanced recovery technologies give us a competitive advantage to deliver long-term value.

As we look ahead to 2026, we continue to actively manage our operational scenarios for a disciplined approach for resilient free cash flow even if in challenging oil price environment. Our approach begins with a focus on operational and cost efficiency over activity reductions to preserve future free cash flow and to maintain optimized activity across our assets.

A key part of this approach is working closely with our service company partners to capture supply chain savings, improving value for both parties. Beyond that, we selectively defer multiyear facilities and construction projects, allowing us to invest opportunistically in these projects when conditions are more favorable.

We also regularly review and optimize our operating expense activities to enable us to scale and time activities for maximum free cash flow. Finally, we evaluate capital and development activity adjustments, always with a focus on achieving the most efficient capital to cash flow outcome. At much lower oil prices, capital flexibility becomes critical, and we remain committed to investing wisely, preserving optionality and delivering value through efficient execution.

As we enter 2026, we are targeting a $55 to $60 WTI plan with flexibility to adapt to market conditions while continuing to improve cost efficiency to deliver our free cash flow needs without impacting operational performance. Looking ahead, we have a deep portfolio of short-cycle, high-return and mid-cycle low-decline assets that can deliver strong cash flow.

We are focused on sustaining momentum by driving cost efficiency, advancing recovery technologies and optimizing our operations. Lastly, I'd like to thank all of our teams for their continued performance and especially safety as we look to end the year strong. I also look forward to working closer with many of you for the first time or again in my new role.

Thank you for your time today, and I'll now turn the call over to Sunil for the financial discussion.

Sunil Mathew
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you, Richard. In the third quarter, we generated a reported profit of $0.65 per diluted share. Strong operational performance and a continued focus on capital efficiency enabled us to generate approximately $1.5 billion in free cash flow before working capital. We had a negative working capital change, primarily driven by the timing of semiannual interest payments on our debt and payments within our Oil and Gas segment.

During the quarter, we repaid $1.3 billion of debt, bringing our total year-to-date debt repayment to $3.6 billion and reducing Occidental's principal debt balance to $20.8 billion. Our strong financial performance can largely be attributed to higher volumes across our U.S. portfolio, which more than offset slightly lower-than-expected production from our international assets.

New well and base production outperformance in the Permian and Rockies as well as higher uptime and favorable weather in the Gulf of America enabled us to exceed the high end of guidance across all of our domestic oil and gas assets. This production outperformance and the continued focus on delivering operational cost efficiencies led to lower domestic lease operating expenses in the quarter, notably outperforming guidance at $8.11 per BOE.

Part of the outperformance also reflected the timing of certain offshore production engineering activities, which shifted into the fourth quarter. In the Midstream and Marketing segment, we continue to capture value through optimizing our gas marketing positions out of the Permian Basin and higher sulfur pricing in Al Hosn. Both were significant catalysts in the segment, generating positive earnings on an adjusted basis of $153 million, above the midpoint of guidance.

Looking ahead, we are increasing our full year guidance for our Oil and Gas and Midstream and Marketing segments as a result of our strong third quarter outperformance and improved expectations for the fourth quarter. In Oil and Gas, we are raising our fourth quarter total company production guidance from last quarter's implied guidance to a midpoint of 1.46 million BOE per day. This is driven by the expectation for continued strong performance across all 3 domestic assets, which should more than offset impacts from a scheduled turnaround at Al Hosn also in the fourth quarter.

Other Midstream and Marketing pretax income guidance assumes that our teams will capture gas marketing optimization benefits from the wider Permian to Gulf Coast spread observed already in the fourth quarter. We expect full year pretax income from the segment to come in approximately $400 million above our original guidance, largely due to those gas marketing opportunities and stronger-than-anticipated sulfur pricing from Al Hosn. Due to continued softness in the global chlorovinyl market, our third quarter OxyChem pretax income came in below guidance at $197 million.

We are guiding to $140 million for the next full quarter. Beginning in the fourth quarter, OxyChem will be classified as discontinued operations. We are in the process of evaluating the potential impact of OxyChem's classification on our fourth quarter adjusted effective tax rate, and we will provide a further update early next year.

Total company capital spend, net of noncontrolling interest of approximately $1.7 billion was in line with our expectations for the third quarter, and we expect to remain within our previously guided range for 2025 capital. As Vicki shared, the OxyChem transaction marks a significant milestone for our company as it will strengthen our financial position and enhance our ability to return capital to our shareholders.

The all-cash nature of this transaction will enable us to accelerate our debt reduction efforts and achieve our post-CrownRock principal debt target of less than $15 billion. Of the roughly $8 billion in transaction net proceeds, we plan to use approximately $6.5 billion to reduce debt. Our initial focus is on the $4 billion of debt maturing in the next 3 years. This includes $1.3 billion of term loans maturing in 2026, which we can call at par and for the remaining $2.7 billion, we may largely use make-whole provisions to ensure certainty.

Beyond that, we will be opportunistic, taking into consideration redemption prices and the impact on our maturity profile. This will meaningfully improve our credit metrics and is expected to lower our annual interest expense by more than $350 million while providing a very manageable near-term debt maturity schedule.

The remaining $1.5 billion in net proceeds will go to cash on the balance sheet. By significantly lowering our debt burden and building cash on hand, we will create a stronger, more resilient balance sheet. With the achievement of our post-CrownRock principal debt target, Oxy will be positioned to broaden our return of capital program and adopt a more flexible framework for delivering value to our shareholders.

We will be opportunistic with the share repurchase program. Our decisions and priorities will be driven by a range of factors, including the macro conditions, commodity prices, market valuation relative to Oxy's intrinsic value, cash on the balance sheet and the timeline to August 2029. We plan to resume the redemption of the preferred in August 2029 when the preferred equity becomes callable with a lower redemption premium and does not have the $4 per share return of capital trigger.

Now I would like to share how we are approaching our capital program for 2026. Last quarter, we discussed the potential to allocate capital to mid-cycle conventional oil assets. We are planning to increase investment in the Gulf of America waterflood projects and in Oman, given both projects' high oil weighting and favorable base decline rates, combined with the enhanced economics in Oman following our Mukhaizna contract extension.

Approximately an additional $250 million could be allocated to these areas as capital rolls off in our LCV portfolio. Considering the recent commodity price volatility and oil market outlook, we are evaluating multiple capital scenarios across our U.S. onshore portfolio. With the OxyChem sale, our U.S. onshore capital will comprise an even greater proportion of the total company investment program, which provides flexibility should the macro environment deteriorate.

As Richard mentioned, we have an incredible runway of high-quality oil and gas opportunities and sustained momentum in delivering value through greater capital efficiency. We plan to reallocate up to $400 million to these short-cycle, high-return projects, primarily in the Permian.

Any additional allocation of capital next year will be undertaken in a thoughtful manner with an eye to the oil market, given oversupply concerns. The quantum of that reallocation will depend on the macroeconomic environment, and we plan to share more on our 2026 capital budget during our fourth quarter call, pending Board approval.

I will now turn the call over to Vicki for closing remarks.

Vicki Hollub
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Sunil. As we highlighted, the OxyChem sale represents more than just a business decision. It marks the final major milestone in the strategic transformation that we've been pursuing for years. With this step, we are accelerating opportunities to extend our advantaged low-cost resource position and leveraging integrated technologies to deliver differentiated recovery and superior value. We are confident that these actions will further strengthen our competitive position. With that, we'll now open the call for questions. And as Jordan mentioned, Ken Dillon is joining us today for the Q&A session.