PDD Holdings Inc. (PDD) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 18, 2025 7:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Lei Chen - General Counsel, Co-CEO & Chairman
Jiazhen Zhao - Co-CEO & Executive Director
Xin Yi Lim

Conference Call Participants

Joyce Ju - BofA Securities, Research Division
Alicis a Yap - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Kenneth Fong - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PDD Holdings, Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your host today. Please go ahead.

Unknown Executive

Thank you, operator, and hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. PDD Holdings earnings release was distributed earlier and is available on our website at investor.pddholdings.com and through the Globe Newswire services. Before we begin, I'd like to refer you to our safe harbor statement in the earnings press release, which applies to this call as we will make certain forward-looking statements. Also, this call includes discussions of certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our earnings release, which contains a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures.

Joining us today on the call are Mr. Chen Lei, our Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Zhao Jiazhen, our Executive Director and Co-Chief Executive Officer; our VP of Finance, Ms. Liu Jun, is unfortunately on medical leave. Delivering the prepared remarks on Jun's behalf today will be Ms. Xin Yi Lim from our Investor Relations team, who has spoken on our earlier earnings calls.

Lei and Jiazhen will make some general remarks and on our performance for the past quarter and our strategic focus, and Jun Liu will then walk us through our financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2025. And during the Q&A session, Lei and Jiazhen will answer questions in Chinese and will help translate. Please kindly note that the English translation is for reference only. And in case of any discrepancy, statements in the original language should prevail. Now it's my pleasure to introduce our Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Chen Lei. Lei, please go ahead.

Lei Chen
General Counsel, Co-CEO & Chairman

Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining our Q3 2025 earnings conference call. This year marks the 10th anniversary of the company's founding. Just before this earnings release, we celebrated our 10th birthday. When we started in 2015, we pioneered the team purchase model, which offered the value proposition of more savings and more fun at scale and created a new e-commerce defined by 3 characters, namely benefit all, people first and more open.

Since then, we have gradually grown from a start into a key player in the e-commerce industry and along our journey, created greater value for our users, our merchants as well as the industry and the society. This quarter, we reported RMB 108 billion in revenue, with growth remaining under pressure. As always, we prioritize long-term value over short-term results.

Looking back over the past decade, we have upheld our core value of concern, adhered firmly to our own duties and principles and maintained focus on our core business of e-commerce. Through our journey, we strive to create value for our users and to address the needs of the widest range of consumers. We have also made every effort in giving back to the industry ecosystem, driving the industry to become more benefit all, more people first and more open.

Since day 1, our mission has been to serve the broadest range of consumers by offering affordable prices and quality services. 10 years ago, we introduced the team purchase model to address the challenges faced by the farmers and growers as well as industrial belt merchants. This e-commerce model has helped a large base of farmers and everyday workers increase their income while offering urban and rural consumers across through quality foods and daily necessities at affordable prices.

Today, 10 years later, our focus remains on the day-to-day of people from all walks of life. We continue to provide consumers with quality goods at affordable prices and help merchants, many of which SMEs expand their market reach. And ultimately, we help producers and consumers live a better life. As a new e-commerce platform born in the mobile Internet era, we moved beyond the traditional online shopping model that placed products at the center. And instead, we put people first. We built our model around consumer focus. We try to understand a human touch behind every click, and we honor the consumer trust behind every order.

We strive to bring more savings and more fun to every purchasing experience. And with this goal in mind, we will continuously driven product innovation, technology integration, service upgrades and improvements in product selection and the efficiency of supply chain. In doing so, we aim to satisfy the diverse and rapidly growing needs of everyday consumers.

Throughout our journey, we have faced fierce and persistent industry competition, and yet we have remained steadfast in our focus on the company's intrinsic value in the long run, and we promote the high-quality growth of the platform ecosystem, and we advocate for a more open industry environment.

Since last year, we have further elevated our ecosystem development and roll out substantial merchant support initiatives such as the $10 billion fee reduction program and $100 billion support program. Through these initiatives, we made investments in our merchants and a wider, creating room for innovation and growth for both established brands and SMEs.

We hope to play our part in facilitating supply chain upgrade and addressing the long-standing challenge faced by our merchants who had quality but lack brand recognition. As we look ahead, the e-commerce industry is witnessing even more intense competition, and we will continue to uphold the principles that have guided us for the past 10 years, staying true to our mission of creating value for our consumers and focused on investing in the high-quality development of our platform and the wider industry.

Today, the scale of our business is far greater than it was 10 years ago and with greater scale comes greater social responsibility. And therefore, as we think about our growth in this new era, we must do so in a way that prioritizes the interest of wider public and the long-term outlook of the entire ecosystem. Going forward, more strategic initiatives similar to $100 billion support program will be rolled out to support both supply side and demand side.

We are also strengthening our efforts in giving back to the industry and a broader society. Three years ago, we launched our global business, which has now grown to serve many markets. Today, with the rapid evolvement of trade barriers and other global events, we are seeing significant shift in the platform's regulatory environment, including in trade policies, tax rules, data security and product compliance regulation across different countries and regions.

This means we will inevitably face greater challenges and more uncertainties. As a young global company, we are working hard to learn to keep up and to adapt to these trends. However, there remain significant uncertainties exposing the company to risks that are unpredictable and difficult to quantify, which may impact our financial performance, both in the short term and over the long term.

And in the midst of fierce industry competition, a complex global environment and our continuous ecosystem investments, our quarterly profitability will fluctuate and is inherently unpredictable. And therefore, simple linear projection might not be a good way to projecting future performance. As we have emphasized in the past, short-term stock price fluctuation has never been our focus.

And rather, our focus remains on building long-lasting intrinsic value by doing the right thing and creating value for consumers. It is with our firm commitment to high-quality development, we embark on the next decade towards our vision of Costco plus Disney. And with that, we will turn the call over to Zhao Jiazhen for further remarks.

Jiazhen Zhao
Co-CEO & Executive Director

[Foreign Language]

Unknown Executive

[Interpreted] Good day, everyone. This is Zhao Jiazhen. Thank you again for joining our Q3 2025 earnings release. The third quarter this year marks the company's 10th anniversary. As Lei mentioned, over the past 10 years, we have remained committed to creating value for our users and growing alongside our merchants.

We have strived to drive the industry to become more open and have delivered incremental value to the society. At this 10-year juncture, we will continue to step up our efforts to give back to the supply side and the demand side as part of our efforts to drive industry upgrades and deliver more savings and more funds to the general public.

In this quarter, our revenue growth continued to be under pressure and operating profit grew in low single digits. Currently, we see intensified competition within the e-commerce sector that is centered around new business models. We will continue to invest back into our platform ecosystem and our investments into the merchant support initiatives similar to the RMB 10 billion fee reduction program and the RMB 100 billion support program will continue in the long run.

These investments will affect the sustained performance of revenue and net profit. And accordingly, our financial results of this quarter should not be considered as guidance for future performance. We cannot rule out the possibility that the financial performance in the next few quarters will continue to fluctuate.

Over the past decade, we grew from a start-up into a public platform. We benefited from China's rapid economic development. And at the same time, we have not lost sight of the social responsibilities that are inherent to a platform company and proactively gave back to the agriculture and other industries. And this year, we rolled out the first RMB 100 billion support program in the e-commerce industry to support merchants and farmers.

Through initiatives such as Duo Duo Premium Produce, new quality supply and logistics support to remote regions, we continue to drive the high-quality development of the platform ecosystem.

As a new e-commerce platform with roots in agriculture, the first products bought and sold on Pinduoduo was agricultural produce. Along the way, we have made long-term investments across different parts of the agricultural industry from supply chain and warehousing logistics to supporting new generations of farmers and agricultural research and development.

These efforts have significantly increased the scale and efficiency of agricultural product distribution, greatly promoted product standardization and helped farmers increase output and income. And in this process, we have become the largest platform for agricultural products in China.

In the third quarter, our Duo Duo Premium project team visited dozens of agriculture specialty regions, including Hubei, Jingzhou, Henan, Shangqiu, Shandong, Liyang, and Yunnan, Pu'er. This year, on the back of CNY 100 billion support program, we launched the Duo Duo Premium Produce initiative to step up our investments into agriculture. Based on the 2025 agricultural product half year report that we just issued, our investments in agriculture have yielded significant results.

And in the first half of this year, agriculture sales grew by 47% year-over-year, and we saw a similarly rapid increase in the number of agricultural merchants with a particularly notable increase of over 30% year-over-year in the generation of merchants born in the 2000s. This demonstrates that the online distribution of agricultural products continues to hold immense promise.

In the third quarter, our Duo Duo Premium Produce team visited dozens of agricultural specialty regions, including Hubei, Jingzhou, Henan, Shangqiu, Shandong, Liyang, and Yunnan [indiscernible] to develop tailored solutions for the merchants and help them make the transition from a model that prioritizes scale to one that prioritize quality. And during the harvest season starting in September, we allocated RMB 1 billion subsidy and RMB 2 billion traffic support and in collaboration with the 300,000 agricultural merchants on our platform, we rolled out the Duo Duo harvest season program to facilitate the timely distribution of produce from rural areas to urban markets, helping farmers increase income.

In the early days of our company, our team purchase model brought about a solution to the legacy challenges within the industrial belts and enabled the industries to quickly scale across regions. The number of e-commerce merchants in many of these regions grew from just 100 or 200 to several thousands. However, this growth has also led to commoditized competition. And today, these industrial belts have reached a critical juncture that calls for transformation.

This quarter, we continue to invest in a new quality supply initiative through our CNY 100 billion support program. Our teams visited dozens of industrial belts such as down jackets in Pinghu, snacks in Huizhou, children's wear in Foshan, bags and luggage in Shandong, and Hanfu in Chaoqian. Leveraging our digital capabilities and fee reduction and merchant support programs, we continue to enhance quality and efficiency for our merchants, we aim to address the challenges of commoditized competition faced by many industries by incremental innovation across each part of the supply chain from raw materials to finished products.

At the end of September, we released a 1-year development report on new quality supply. The report shows rapid growth in the number of industrial merchants. The number of merchants between the age of 25 and 30 grew by 31% year-over-year and those born in the 2000s grew by 44%. The number of high-quality SKUs increased by over 50% year-over-year, and we've also seen a significant rise in the branded stores on these industrial belts. And these figures demonstrate that the key industrial belts are steadily moving towards high-quality development.

And on supply side, investments have allowed us to bring more savings and more fun to a broad base of ordinary consumers. We see urban white-collar workers ordering fresh flowers from Yunnan, while young people in small towns buy trendy designer toys. We see mountain villages enjoying high-quality seafood, while herdsmen in Western regions wear UV protective jackets. And taking the Western regions as an example, the exemption of transshipment fees has led to a significant surge in order volume for pet supplies, outdoor and sun protection gears, designer toys and fresh produce and plants, among other product categories. This greatly stimulated economic activities between the regions.

Starting a fresh from this 10-year mark, we will continue to put consumers first and drive organizational evolution. And one by one, we will tackle the practical problems faced by our users, merchants and the industries through persistent focused efforts and continue to build a thriving platform that benefits all, taking on greater social responsibility and creating value for the public.

Now I'll hand over to in Xin Yi to provide you with an update on our Q3 financial performance.

Xin Yi Lim

Thank you, Jiazhen. Hello, everyone. This is Xin Yi from the Investor Relations team. Jun is on medical leave, and I will deliver the prepared remarks on behalf of her. Let me walk you through our financial performance for the third quarter ended September 30, 2025. In terms of income statements, in the third quarter, our total revenues increased 9% year-over-year to RMB 108.3 billion. This was driven by an increase in revenues from online marketing services and transaction services.

Revenues from online marketing services and others were RMB 53.3 billion this quarter, up 8% from the same quarter of 2024. Online marketing services growth moderated further as competition intensified and as we invest in the merchant ecosystem. Revenues from transaction services were RMB 54.9 billion, up 10% from the same quarter last year.

Moving on to costs and expenses. Our total cost of revenues increased 18% from RMB 39.7 billion in Q3 2024 to RMB 46.8 billion this quarter, mainly due to increase in fulfillment fees, bandwidth and server costs and payment processing fees. On a GAAP basis, total operating expenses this quarter increased 3% to RMB 36.4 billion from RMB 35.4 billion in the same quarter of 2024.

On a non-GAAP basis, total operating expenses increased to RMB 34.4 billion this quarter from RMB 32.9 billion in Q3 2024. Our total non-GAAP operating expenses as a percentage of total revenues this quarter was 32%, roughly in line with the same quarter last year. Looking into specific expense items. Our non-GAAP sales and marketing expenses this quarter were RMB 29.8 billion, flat compared to the same quarter last year.

On a non-GAAP basis, our sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our revenues this quarter was 28% compared to 30% in the same quarter last year. Our non-GAAP general and administrative expenses were RMB 896 million versus RMB 647 million in the same quarter of 2024. Our research and development expenses were RMB 3.7 billion this quarter on a non-GAAP basis and RMB 4.3 billion on a GAAP basis, up 41% year-over-year.

Our investment in R&D reached a new high this quarter, reflecting our focus on improving the core technology capabilities of our platform. We are committed to investing in R&D over the long run to capture opportunities in supply chain innovation and consumer experience. On a GAAP basis, operating profit for the quarter was RMB 25 billion versus RMB 24.3 billion in the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP operating profit was RMB 27.1 billion versus RMB [ 28 ] billion in the same quarter last year.

Non-GAAP operating profit margin was 25% this quarter, down from 27% for the same quarter last year. As we invest in the platform ecosystem, our profitability may continue to fluctuate. Net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB 29.3 billion for the quarter compared to RMB 25 billion in the same quarter last year. Basic earnings per ADS was RMB 20.96 and diluted earnings per ADS was RMB 19.7 versus basic earnings per ADS of RMB 18.02 and diluted earnings per ADS of RMB 16.91 in the same quarter of 2024.

Non-GAAP net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB 31.4 billion versus RMB 27.5 billion in the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per ADS was RMB 21.08 versus RMB 18.59 in the same quarter of 2024. Now as Lei and Jiazhen mentioned, we are facing an increasingly competitive industry landscape, which calls for more investments in the platform ecosystem. And therefore, as we roll out greater merchant support initiatives and ecosystem investments, financial results may continue to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter.

That completes our income statement. Now let me move on to cash flow. Our net cash generated from operating activities was RMB 45.7 billion compared with RMB 27.5 billion in the same quarter last year. As of September 30, 2025, we had RMB 423.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Thank you. This concludes my prepared remarks.

Unknown Executive

Thank you, Xin Yi . And next, we will move on to the Q&A session. In today's Q&A session, Lei and Jiazhen will take questions from analysts on the line. [Operator Instructions] Lei and Jiazhen will answer questions in Chinese and will help translate for convenient purposes. Operator, we'll open for questions.