Pfizer Inc. (PFE) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Francesca DeMartino - Chief Investor Relations Officer
Albert Bourla - Chairman of the Board & CEO
David Denton - Executive VP & CFO
Aamir Malik
Andrew Baum - Chief Strategy & Innovation Officer, Executive VP
Chris Boshoff - Chief Scientific Officer and President of Research & Development

Conference Call Participants

Vamil Divan - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
David Risinger - Leerink Partners LLC, Research Division
Asad Haider - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Geoffrey Meacham - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Courtney Breen - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Terence Flynn - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Akash Tewari - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Kerry Holford - Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG, Research Division
Mohit Bansal - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Alexandria Hammond - Wolfe Research, LLC
Christopher Schott - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Umer Raffat - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Steve Scala - TD Cowen, Research Division
Evan Seigerman - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Rajesh Kumar - HSBC Global Investment Research

Presentation

Operator

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer and Senior Vice President. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Francesca DeMartino
Chief Investor Relations Officer

Good morning, and welcome to Pfizer's earnings call. I'm Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer. On behalf of the Pfizer team, thank you for joining us. This call is being made available via audio webcast at pfizer.com. Earlier this morning, we released our results for the third quarter of 2025 via a press release that is available on our website at pfizer.com. I'm joined today by Dr. Albert Bourla, our Chairman and CEO; and David Denton, our CFO. Albert and Dave have some prepared remarks, and we will then open the call for questions. Members of our leadership team will be available for the Q&A session.

Before we get started, I want to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements and discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. I encourage you to read the disclaimers in our slide presentation, the press release we issued this morning and the disclosures in our SEC filings, which are all available on the IR website on pfizer.com. Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties, speak only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of the statements.

With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.

Albert Bourla
Chairman of the Board & CEO

Thank you, Francesca. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our call. The past few months have been pivotal for Pfizer. We are really excited about our future and confident that we are in a strong position to continue delivering value for patients and our shareholders. Our third quarter performance shows how we continue to execute with discipline and focus even while taking on major strategic efforts. I will discuss highlights, including our agreement with the U.S. government, which has provided greater clarity of our strategic investment in future innovation and growth.

Additionally, with our proposed acquisition of Metsera and the progress we have made since closing our licensing agreement with 3SBio and key upcoming catalysts, the strength of our R&D pipeline continues to grow. Our landmark agreement with the U.S. government was an important milestone because it removed uncertainty on 2 critical policy fronts. We successfully addressed the administration's call to lower prescription drug costs and align prices with those in other developed countries, and we will have a 3-year grace period from certain U.S. tariffs with our commitment to further invest in manufacturing in the U.S.

Now I want to address our proposed acquisition of Metsera. We believe that Novo Nordisk offer is illusory and cannot constitute superior proposal under the terms of our merger agreement with Metsera because it violates antitrust law and there is a high risk it will never be consummated. We are encouraged by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission's decision to grant early termination of the HSR waiting period, which is unprecedented during a government shutdown and clears the path to completing this transaction following the Metsera shareholder vote on November 13.

With the pending legal action we have taken to enforce and preserve Pfizer's rights under the merger agreement, you understand that we will be limited in the details we can address further during today's call. What I can say it is that, our belief in the promise of the Pfizer and Metsera combination is strong and unwavering. We are confident it will create substantial value for shareholders and advance innovation to bring important medicines to patients in the high-growth therapeutic area of obesity. Plus, we believe Pfizer will have distinct advantages in developing and delivering new potential treatments because of our proven scientific and commercial strength.

Our R&D infrastructure has global reach and extensive experience running clinical trials in large population. Our commercial teams have well-established capabilities in bringing primary care therapies to patients. We have proven we can drive leading clinical commercial and strategic momentum with key cardiovascular brands such as Eliquis, Lipitor, Norvasc and the Vyndaqel family, and we plan to execute in a similar way with Metsera as we reinvigorate Pfizer's cardiometabolic presence.

The licensing agreement with 3SBio is another way we have strategically enhanced our pipeline. Encouraging Phase II first-line metastatic colorectal cancer efficacy and safety data for SSGJ-707, the PD-1 VEGF bispecific was shared last month at the European Society for Medical Oncology meeting. Looking ahead, we are excited to present additional clinical data at the upcoming Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer Meeting. We are also encouraged by our discussions with regulators about our plans to unlock the potential of 707 with a robust clinical development program. As we look forward to executing with 707, Pfizer has distinct advantages.

We have deep experience in the development of multi-specific antibody therapeutics and the ability to leverage unique combination regimens that make this promising cancer immunotherapy candidate, a strong complement to our oncology portfolio. We've also made progress in advancing other key programs in our late-stage R&D pipeline. This was reinforced by our presence at ESMO last month with over 45 abstracts, 5 late-breaking presentations and recognition in Presidential Symposium. Starting with the Presidential Symposium, new Phase III data demonstrated that Padcev in combination with pembrolizumab reduced the risk of recurrence and death by at least half for patients with cisplatin ineligible muscle invasive cancer when given before and after surgery.

This is the first and only regimen to improve survival when used before and after standard of care in this patient population. With this unprecedented data in hand, we see the potential to substantially increase the U.S. addressable population with approximately 18,000 patients under the current label in metastatic urothelial cancer. And if there are further positive data and it is approved up to approximately 22,500 additional patients across both cisplatin-eligible and cisplatin-ineligible muscle invasive bladder cancer.

We also presented follow-up results from the PHAROS single-arm Phase II clinical trial supporting Braftovi and Mektovi as a standard of care for patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer harboring a BRAF V600A mutation -- V600E mutation. This updated analysis showed a substantial median overall survival benefit of 70 -- 47.6 months in treatment-naive patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with a BRAF V600E 00E mutation. We are pleased with the continued strong year-over-year growth of Braftovi and Mektovi with a 30 percentage point increase in new patient starts since the October '23 launch.

We believe the results from the PHAROS trial could establish a new benchmark with targeted combination therapies for its population of patients. These results fortify the strength of our growing lung cancer portfolio that includes small molecules, ADCs and our 707 bispecific. We are confident in our potential to deliver treatments across the lung cancer spectrum, a large and growing market expected to reach approximately $70 billion by year 2030. We also presented final overall survival results from the Phase III EMBARK trial evaluating XTANDI in combination with leuprolide and as a monotherapy in non-metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer with high-risk biochemical recurrence.

As the first and only ARI-based regimen to demonstrate overall survival benefit in this population, these results highlight the potential benefit of XTANDI in this earlier line treatment setting. This strengthens our position for a product that is experiencing strong demand growth in hormone-sensitive prostate cancer and rapid uptake in the approximate 16,000 U.S. patient population with non-metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer with high-risk biochemical recurrence. I want to mention another update about our program in sickle cell disease.

We are very pleased that last month, the FDA concluded that Pfizer may resume enrollment of osivelotor studies outside of Sub-Saharan Africa and in individuals who have not relocated from Sub-Saharan Africa. We are still engaging with regulatory authorities to determine possible next steps for Oxbryta. We will look forward to sharing more details in the months ahead about our key pipeline catalysts for 2026 in the coming years. With disciplined execution and our continued focus on key products, both in the U.S. and key international markets, we continue to build on our leadership position within our commercial portfolio.

Our Vyndaqel family of products achieved 7% year-over-year global operational growth in the quarter. Strong demand reinforced that this is the foundation of treatment for patients with a heart condition of ATTR cardiomyopathy, helping them live longer and avoid hospitalization. We are encouraged by our continued strong market leadership. In international, we achieved 40% growth in the quarter in total patients on treatment. In the U.S., our continued double-digit demand growth reflects strong diagnostic efforts, broad access and favorable affordability dynamics. Nurtec continues to lead with the oral -- to lead the oral CGRP class in primary care penetration in the U.S.

In international, we achieved growth with continued strong uptake in key markets. Globally, we achieved 22% year-over-year operational growth in the quarter. We are pleased that our new consumer campaigns continue to perform well, and our team has been effective in sharing new compelling clinical data with health care professionals. Padcev, another market leader in our portfolio, achieved 13% year-over-year global operational growth in the quarter. Padcev in combination with pembro continues to expand utilization and has been established as a standard of care first-line treatment for patients with locally advanced metastatic urothelial cancer.

Our vaccines portfolio is a key area of focus in international markets. We are pleased with the strong performance of the Prevnar family, driven by [indiscernible] and launches in several key markets. We achieved 17% year-over-year international additional growth in the quarter. Pfizer is the pediatric pneumococcal vaccination leader with public funding secured in about 140 national immunization programs around the world. After launching in the majority of key international markets, Prevnar Adult is the established leader among adult pneumococcal conjugate vaccines.

In the U.S., where we did experience a year-over-year decline in the quarter, we are pleased with the overall performance of Prevnar 20. For adults, Prevnar held a market-leading position and grew with the expanded recommendation for adults over 50. In the pediatric market, accounting for about 60% of Prevnar revenues in the U.S., we experienced a delayed timing of government bulk order, which we have seen from time to time. So it's a question of time. I want to provide an update about the next-generation PCV programs. While we previously guided to a Phase III start of our adult 25-valent program in 2025, we are planning to start the study next year if the FDA aligns with our approach. For our pediatric program, we expect fourth dose data from our ongoing Phase I/II study early next year. And pending positive data and regulatory feedback, we have the potential to start both Phase III programs in 2026, streamlining our development approach and aligning with our strategy to provide a single vaccine across age groups.

We are committed to maintaining leadership in the PCV space. And as a reminder, our 25-valent vaccine candidate has the potential for improved immunogenicity for serotype 3, which is one of the largest remaining contributors of pneumococcal disease. Serotype 3 alone is estimated to cause approximately 20% of invasive disease in the 65-plus population in the U.S. and EU. Abrysvo also achieved significant international momentum with 75% year-over-year operational growth in the quarter due to expanded access in key markets. In the U.S., we are experiencing the headwind of a more difficult to activate population as we enter the third season of RSV.

Still, we are continuing to strengthen our position with a 59% market share in the U.S. in shipped-dose volume in this quarter. From the significant strategic milestones we have achieved in recent months to our solid financial performance during this quarter, we are demonstrating how we are building for long-term value with near-term execution of our 2025 strategic priorities. By committing to focus simplification and leveraging technology across our business, we are accelerating progress and improving productivity.

In the quarter, we achieved another strong gross margin performance. Additionally, we were able to deliver adjusted diluted EPS that was ahead of expectations significantly, even with lower infection rates contributing to a revenue decline in our COVID-19 portfolio. Our business is performing well, and we are raising the range of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance for full year 2025, while also remaining committed to our dividend.

And with that, I'll turn it over to Dave.

David Denton
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Albert, and good morning, everyone. To begin this morning, I'd like to highlight that our solid financial performance directly reflects our continued disciplined execution of our key strategic priorities. We continue to prioritize enhanced patient outcomes as well as the achievement of our financial objectives. Furthermore, our recent agreement with the U.S. government demonstrates our ability to navigate in a complex external environment. Our cost improvement measures have driven greater operational efficiency and streamlined decision-making, which is evident in the solid operating margins for this quarter.

Year-to-date, margins expanded despite the unfavorable impact of the acquired in-process R&D from the 3SBio transaction. Going forward, we expect to improve our cash flow and increase flexibility across our 3 capital allocation pillars. Our focus remains on creating long-term shareholder value. We will continue to invest in our business for the long term, evidenced by our recent business development activity while prudently returning capital to our shareholders. Now with that, let me start with our third quarter results, then I'll touch on our cost improvement initiatives as well as our capital allocation priorities.

I'll finish with a few comments on our 2025 guidance, which continues to improve as we move throughout this year. For the third quarter of 2025, we recorded revenues of $16.7 billion, a decrease of 7% operationally versus the same period of last year. That's largely driven by a decline in our COVID products. The decline was primarily due to Paxlovid, which experienced reduced demand from lower levels of disease incidents as well as last year's onetime Paxlovid government stockpiling recorded in Q3 of '24 and to a lesser extent, Comirnaty.

With that said, our non-COVID products performance was solid, growing 4% operationally versus the same period of LY. On the bottom line, third quarter 2025 reported diluted earnings per share was $0.62 and adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.87, ahead of our expectations due to our overall gross margin and cost management performance. I'll point out that this profit performance includes a headwind of approximately $0.20 of acquired in-process R&D from the 3SBio transaction. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of our refined commercial strategy.

We remain committed to prioritizing key products and markets, optimizing the global allocation of our commercial field resources and concentrating our market efforts on high priority areas. We saw solid contribution across our product portfolios, primarily driven by Eliquis, the Vyndaqel family and Nurtec, but it was more than offset by declines in Paxlovid and Comirnaty. Through the first 9 months of '25, Pfizer's recently launched and acquired products delivered $7.3 billion in revenue while growing approximately 9% operationally versus last year.

This lower growth rate in the third quarter as compared to Q2 was primarily driven by the timing of pediatric CDC shipments of Prevnar and a onetime favorable impact in Q2 for Seagen products transitioning to a wholesale distribution model in the U.S. We plan to continue to invest behind these 2 product groups to drive the future performance and help enable the company to largely offset our LOEs over the next several years. Adjusted gross margin for the third quarter was approximately 76%, primarily reflecting the product mix in the quarter and continued strong cost management within our manufacturing footprint.

As a reminder, over the past 2 years, our adjusted gross margins have generally remained in the mid- to upper 70s, excluding Comirnaty, which has a 50-50 profit split with our partner, BioNTech. We expect $1.5 billion in savings from Phase 1 of the manufacturing optimization program by the end of '27 to support our long-term operating margin expansion goal. Going forward, cost management across our manufacturing network remains a top priority. Total adjusted operating expense were $7 billion for the third quarter of '25, an increase of 21% operationally versus LY, driven in large part by the acquired in-process R&D expense for 3SBio.

Excluding the 3SBio deal, adjusted operating expenses contracted by approximately $150 million versus last year. And looking at the components, adjusted SI&A expenses decreased 3% operationally, primarily driven by focused investments and ongoing productivity improvements that drove a decrease in marketing and promotional spend for various products. Adjusted R&D expense decreased 3% operationally as well, driven by a net decrease in spending due to pipeline focus and optimization, including the expansion of our digital capabilities.

And finally, acquired in-process R&D expenses increased $1.4 billion, largely resulting from the 3SBio deal. As our adjusted S&A and R&D expenses demonstrate, we continue to be disciplined with our operational expense management. Q3 reported diluted earnings per share was $0.62, and our adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.87, which benefited from our efficient operating structure. Additionally, EPS was aided by our effective tax rate, primarily driven by favorable changes in jurisdictional mix of earnings and tax benefits related to global income tax resolutions in multiple jurisdictions spanning multiple years, partially offset by the aforementioned 3SBio acquired in-process R&D charge.

We continue to be disciplined with expense management, progressing multiple cost improvement programs as we remained focused on driving operating margin expansion over the coming years. Phase 1 of the manufacturing optimization program contributed savings in the third quarter. In addition, we remain on track to deliver on our goal of at least $4.5 billion in cumulative net cost savings from our ongoing cost realignment program by the end of this year.

As a reminder, in total for these programs, we expect approximately $7.7 billion in savings by the end of '27 to drive operational efficiencies, strengthening our business with the potential of contributing significantly to our bottom line over this period. Of these savings, approximately $500 million identified in R&D will be reinvested in the pipeline, which we expect by the end of 2026. With that, now let me quickly touch upon our capital allocation, which is designed to enhance long-term shareholder value.

Our strategy consists of maintaining and growing our dividend over time, reinvesting in our business at the appropriate level of financial returns and making value-enhancing share repurchases. In the first 9 months of this year, we returned $7.3 billion to shareholders via our quarterly dividend, invested $7.2 billion in internal R&D and invested approximately $1.6 billion in business development transactions, primarily reflecting the 3SBio licensing deal. As a reminder, our business development capacity after the 3SBio deal is approximately $13 billion.

In the third quarter, we announced the planned acquisition of Metsera for approximately $4.9 billion with additional contingent value rights tied to the successful pipeline progression. The transaction is expected to be funded through a mix of available cash as well as debt. We expect the deal to be dilutive through 2030 as we continue to invest to enable further promising late-stage pipeline assets. Specifically, we currently expect the Metsera transaction to be approximately $0.16 dilutive to 2026 adjusted EPS. Additionally, we expect another $0.05 of dilution in '26 from the 3SBio deal, which closed in the third quarter.

With that said, we believe the 2 deals set up a strong potential revenue growth trajectory in 2030 and beyond. And lastly, through the first 9 months of '25, operating cash flow was approximately $6.4 billion, which includes the $1.35 billion upfront payment for the 3SBio transaction. Our gross leverage at the end of the third quarter was approximately 2.7x. That said, upon the close of the Metsera transaction, our leverage is expected to be above the 2.7x target. We expect to bring our leverage back down to the target levels over time to continue to support a balanced allocation of capital between reinvestments and direct return to shareholders.

Now let me turn to our full year 2025 guidance. As Albert noted in September, we reached a new voluntary agreement with the U.S. government that will help ensure U.S. patients pay lower prices for prescription medications while providing the clarity we need to focus on our business and our investments in future innovation. The agreement has no impact on our 2025 guidance, but we expect a dilutive impact to our 2026 financial outlook. We continue to expect full year 2025 revenues to be in the range of $61 billion to $64 billion. Non-COVID products continue to perform very well operationally and ahead of our plan.

However, we note there is softness in our COVID products due to lower vaccination rates and COVID infection rates. In addition, our guidance assumes a favorable impact to revenues from foreign exchange rates. Furthermore, we now expect adjusted R&D to be in the range of $10 billion to $11 billion and our effective tax rate to be approximately 11%. Additionally, adjusted S&A remains unchanged. Now given our strong performance to date and our fourth quarter outlook, including our more efficient cost structure, we are raising and narrowing our full year 2025 adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance by approximately $0.08 at the midpoint to $3 a share to $3.15 a share. I'd like to emphasize our adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance substantially derisked the current lower-than-anticipated COVID trends.

In closing, we remain committed to enhancing the value of our product portfolio and advancing innovation to further strengthen our pipeline. With a stronger balance sheet, we plan to continue deploying capital effectively. We aim to boost R&D productivity with digital tools, including AI, prioritize investments in key R&D programs and to deliver new growth through business development. Furthermore, our performance continues to exceed expectations and deliver strong results even as the incidence of COVID remains low.

This consistent performance highlights our resilience and commitment to excellence. Regardless of the challenging external environment, our efforts to enhance cost efficiency and generate improvements in operating margins by driving productivity and optimizing processes. Lastly, with the recent agreement with the U.S. government, we can now focus on executing our strategy and our strategic priorities across our business to deliver new medicines for patients and enhance long-term shareholder value. I'd like to just close by noting that it is our expectation that we'll provide guidance for 2026, most likely by the end of this year.

So with that, I'll turn it back over to Albert, and we'll begin our question-and-answer session.

Albert Bourla
Chairman of the Board & CEO

Thank you, Dave. So operator, please assemble the queue.