Planet Labs PBC (PL) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 10, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Cleo Palmer-Poroner
William Marshall - Co-Founder, CEO & Chairman of the Board
Ashley Whitfield Johnson - President & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Ryan Koontz - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Xin Yu - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Mike Latimore - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division
Colin Canfield - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Jeff Van Rhee - Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, Research Division
Kristine Liwag - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Trevor Walsh - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Gregory Pendy
Christopher Quilty - Quilty Space Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for joining us, and welcome to the Planet Labs PBC Third Quarter of Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]

I will now hand the conference over to Cleo Palmer-Poroner, Director of Investor Relations.

Cleo Palmer-Poroner

Thanks, operator, and hello, everyone. This is Cleo Palmer-Poroner, Director of Investor Relations at Planet Labs PBC. Welcome to Planet's Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Call.

I'm joined by Will Marshall and Ashley Johnson, who will provide a recap of our results and discuss our current outlook. We encourage everyone to please reference the earnings press release and earnings update presentation for today's call, which are available on our Investor Relations website.

Before we begin, we'd like to remind everyone that we will make forward-looking statements related to future events or our financial outlook. Any forward-looking statements are based on management's current outlook, plans, estimates, expectations and projections. The inclusion of such forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by Planet that future plans, estimates or expectations will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and assumptions as detailed in our SEC filings, which can be found at www.sec.gov.

Our actual results or performance may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, and we undertake no responsibility to update such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

During the call, we will also discuss historic and forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures. We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that these measures provide useful information about operating results, enhance the overall understanding of past financial performance and future prospects and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making.

For more information on the non-GAAP financial measures, please see the reconciliation tables provided in our press release issued earlier this afternoon, which is available on our website at investors.planet.com.

Further, throughout this call, we provide a number of key performance indicators used by management and often used by competitors in our industry. These and other key performance indicators are discussed in more detail in our press release and our earnings update presentation, which are intended to accompany our prepared remarks.

At this point, I'd now like to turn the call over to Will Marshall, Planet's CEO, Chairperson and Co-Founder. Over to you, Will.

William Marshall
Co-Founder, CEO & Chairman of the Board

Thanks, Cleo, and welcome, everyone, joining us today. It was another strong quarter, so let's dive in. To briefly summarize the financials, we generated $81.3 million in revenue, representing approximately 33% growth year-over-year, marking another quarter of growth acceleration. Non-GAAP gross margin was 60% in the quarter, and adjusted EBITDA profit came in at $5.6 million, representing our fourth sequential quarter of adjusted EBITDA profitability. Our backlog was $734.5 million at the end of the quarter, representing a year-over-year increase of 216%. Once again, we delivered positive free cash flow, the third quarter in a row, reinforcing our expectation of being free cash flow positive for the full fiscal year. I'm particularly proud to report that with the strong performance in Q3, we are now also expected to be adjusted EBITDA positive in FY '26, an excellent milestone for the team as we work to strike a balance between profit and growth.

Turning to sales highlights. I'll start with the Defense and Intelligence sector, where Q3 revenue accelerated to over 70% growth year-on-year, up over 15% quarter-over-quarter, all driven by strong performance in our data subscription and solutions businesses as well as our satellite services business. As previously announced, we were awarded a prime contract under the Luno B program by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency for a $12.8 million initial award with partner SynMax. The award is for advanced analytics for maritime operations and reconnaissance. Under this program, we will provide the NGA with AI-enabled maritime domain awareness solutions, which include vessel detections and monitoring over key areas of interest in Asia Pacific. We're honored to have been selected and excited to be expanding this relationship.

The National Reconnaissance Office renewed its baseline contract for PlanetScope board area monitoring data under the Electro-Optical Commercial Layer program for $13.2 million through June 2026. If you were to annualize this award, the annual run rate would be approximately $21.1 million. For the high-resolution component of our EOCL relationship, we have been awarded a framework contract, which the NRO can utilize to order high-resolution Pelican imagery. As a reminder, the EOCL program has been impacted by both the U.S. government shutdown and potential federal budget reductions. That said, we're encouraged by the continued engagement from this critical customer and see significant opportunities for growth in that relationship in the future, particularly as this administration leans into leveraging commercial technologies.

We also won an 8-figure renewal with a long-standing international defense and intelligence customer for high-resolution imagery as we announced last month. And also as previously announced, we were awarded a 6-month $7.5 million contract renewal by the U.S. Navy for vessel detection and monitoring over key areas of interest throughout the Pacific.

Finally, our global monitoring pilots with NATO and DIU have been progressing very well. We're pleased to share that last month, we were awarded a 7-figure expansion by NATO prior to the completion of our existing pilot for them. We're incredibly proud of this early traction and are working hard to continue delivering for these customers. More broadly, we continue to see robust demand for downstream products that embed AI-enabled analytics on top of our daily scan for customers' operations, enhance situation awareness and support informed decision-making.

Turning to the civil government sector, where third quarter revenue was up approximately 1% year-over-year and up approximately 15% quarter-over-quarter. To share a recent highlight, during the quarter, NASA awarded us a 1-year $13.5 million task order under the commercial satellite data acquisition program. As a reminder, this program has also been impacted by the U.S. government shutdown and potential federal budget reductions. Although this relationship has historically been an approximately $20 million annual run rate, we're very pleased to be continuing this important work with our partners at NASA and see opportunities to expand the relationship in the future. In fact, since the end of the quarter, we have received an incremental CSDA task order from NASA for disaster response. Under this new order, which is just under $1 million in value, we will be providing high-resolution tasked imagery to support disaster response and recovery.

Shifting finally to the commercial sector, where revenue was moderately down both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter. While this trend is expected given our increased focus on large government customers, we remain confident in the commercial sector as a significant market opportunity for Planet, especially as we continue to advance our solution capabilities. We believe that AI-enabled solutions we're developing for our government customers will enable us to deliver insights that can serve applications across a broad range of industries and use cases from supply chain, security and optimization to insurance, finance, energy and agriculture, where we have had a number of marquee customers today. We expect these solutions will help unlock growth in the commercial sector, bridging the gap from data to insights for those customers.

To share a recent commercial highlight, we signed a new operational contract with AXA, one of the world's leading insurance groups following a successful proof of concept. AXA Digital Commercial Platform, or DCP, will integrate data from Planet Base maps, our medium resolution monitoring satellite and high-resolution tasking fleets as well directly into its DCP GeoClaims application to enhance claim processing efficiency and accuracy for property management. We've also signed a strategic marketplace agreement, which will add Planet's products to AXA's DCP platform, making them commercially available to AXA's vast client network of insurance partners. This partnership marks a major step forward in proactive data-led resilience in the face of complex disaster and crisis management needs.

Turning to our Satellite Services business. The team is continuing to execute well on our contract with JSAT, which once again contributed to revenue upside in the quarter. We've also begun ramping for our German-funded satellite services deal and saw a small contribution from that work in the quarter. As we've shared previously, we're seeing very strong demand signals for satellite services driven by our current geopolitical landscape and the demand for sovereign access to space. We continue to aggressively pursue strategic opportunities and the pipeline is robust.

Turning now to the consistently remarkable execution by our Space Systems teams. Just 12 days ago, we launched two of our high-resolution Pelicans into orbit, bringing our commercial fleet size to 5 satellites. We also launched 36 SuperDoves, which will join our broad area monitoring fleet. We have successfully contracted all 38 satellites, and they're now undergoing routine commissioning as they prepare to begin serving customers. We got first light down from the Pelicans the next day, and we're excited to share initial images, which you can find in the investor deck or on our IR website.

We also recently announced plans to open a new Berlin satellite manufacturing facility for the production of next-generation high-resolution Pelican satellites in Germany. We expect to begin ramping operations next year with the aim to roughly double our manufacturing capacity and better meet growing demand from the European market.

Now I want to provide a little more context on our two strategic projects that we announced in the quarter. Firstly, in October, we announced Owl, our next-generation monitoring fleet to continue our unique broad area monitoring mission currently serviced by the SuperDove fleet, but improving the resolution to 1 meter class, lowering the latency and significantly upgrading the onboard compute to incorporate NVIDIA GPUs. Owl is designed from the ground up to address expanded applications ranging from security to disaster response to rapid change detection. The first tech demo is slated for launch later in calendar year 2026, and we're incredibly excited about the future of our daily monitoring solutions.

Secondly, we recently announced a funded R&D initiative with Google called Project Suncatcher. Suncatcher aims to enable scaled AI computing in space by putting Google's tensor processing units or TPUs on purpose-designed satellites where they can leverage the energy of the sun and shed excess heat into the natural coolness of space. This is a competitive win for Planet and our strong track record of building, launching and operating over 600 satellites to date, together with our collaboration on AI-enabled solutions represents a competitive edge, underlying the depth of our experience and our agile aerospace approach. Suncatcher aligns well with our technology development road map for Owl, leveraging the same satellite bus and is therefore highly synergistic. As previously announced, we're planning to deploy two prototype satellites in early 2027. We're excited to be working with our long-term partner, Google, to develop this promising new technology.

On the solutions side, I'm excited to share today that we recently closed the acquisition of Bedrock Research, an AI solutions company based in Denver, Colorado. Through our collaborations to date, Bedrock has successfully delivered for our existing defense and intelligence customers. From a team perspective, they have a rare deep expertise in the intersection of remote sensing, AI and national security. We've been very impressed with their team's agility, creativity and innovation. We view this as a strategically valuable capability. And given the traction we're seeing in global monitoring, bringing this expertise in-house now will help us to accelerate our road map for AI-enabled solutions and support our ability to efficiently scale to meet that market demand. We're thrilled to welcome the Bedrock team to the Planet organization.

To close out, in Q3, we demonstrated continued momentum across the business, driven by strong execution, strategic wins in the government sector and exciting new developments and technologies that we announced, including Owl and Suncatcher. We believe we are well positioned for growth and profitability, reinforced by our robust backlog and commitments to developing best-in-class solutions for our customers. I'm incredibly proud of our global team for the phenomenal execution and excited for what lies ahead.

With that, I'll turn it over to Ashley to discuss our financials. Over to you, Ash.

Ashley Whitfield Johnson
President & CFO

Thanks, Will. I'll start by echoing Will's remarks and saying that Q3 was another outstanding quarter with strong execution by our teams around the globe. I was particularly proud of our finance and operations teams who added to our list of accomplishments by raising $460 million of convertible debt in September and hosting a highly successful Investor Day at the New York Stock Exchange in October, where we provided an in-depth update on momentum in the business and our go-to-market focus.

Turning to the quarter's results. As Will highlighted, revenue came in at $81.3 million, representing approximately 33% year-over-year growth. The outperformance was driven primarily by our defense and intelligence and civil government customers as well as continued progress against our JSAT satellite services contract. We saw upside during the quarter from the Luno B win with the NGA as well as contribution from some onetime factors, which supported our better-than-expected results.

During the third quarter, revenue from the defense and intelligence sector grew significantly year-on-year, driven largely by wins with the NGA, the U.S. Navy and international defense and intelligence customers. The commercial sector was down in part due to seasonality in the agricultural sector in addition to our shift in focus towards larger accounts. Civil government revenue was up modestly with strength from international customers in the sector, offset primarily by the end of our contract with Norway for their NICFI program. We're pleased to see strong uptake of our AI-enabled solutions in the government markets, contributing particularly to defense and intelligence wins in the quarter.

Turning to our regional revenue breakdown. Growth was distributed across the globe in the third quarter with approximate revenue growth of 38% year-over-year in both Asia Pacific and EMEA, 30% in North America and 7% in Latin America. As of the end of Q3, our end-of-period customer count was 910 customers, flat on a sequential basis, reflecting our direct sales team's intentional shift to focus on large customer opportunities and leveraging our self-serve platform to provide access to data for our other customers.

As a reminder, Planet Insight platform customers are not included in our end-of-period customer count. We continue to see strong revenue growth and thus a solid increase in average revenue per customer as a positive indicator that our sales team's focus on landing and expanding high-value accounts is yielding results. As we shift to some of our ACV metrics, I want to remind you that the JSAT multiyear satellite services contract is not included in our ACV metrics, although it is included in our RPOs and backlog, which we will discuss in a moment.

Recurring ACV was 97% of our end-of-period ACV book of business, reflecting our continued focus on selling subscription data contracts and solutions as opposed to onetime professional or engineering services. Approximately 83% of our end-of-period ACV book of business consists of annual or multiyear contracts, lower than prior periods as we have seen a higher proportion of large shorter-term government deals closed in recent quarters. Net dollar retention rate at the end of Q3 was 109% and net dollar retention rate with winbacks was 110%.

Turning to gross margin. Non-GAAP gross margin for the third quarter was 60% compared to 64% in the third quarter of fiscal year 2025, reflecting investments in support of our satellite services contracts and the mix of contracts, including AI-enabled partner solutions. Our gross margins came in better than expected, primarily driven by the revenue outperformance in the quarter. Adjusted EBITDA profit was $5.6 million for Q3, better than expected, primarily driven by revenue outperformance in the quarter and disciplined OpEx spend. This marks our fourth sequential quarter of adjusted EBITDA profitability.

Capital expenditures in Q3, which include our capitalized software development, were approximately $27.7 million. This was above our guidance range, driven primarily by our decision to prepay for more favorable pricing in certain hardware procurements and launch deposits for our next-generation satellites. As a reminder, we're currently in a growth CapEx investment cycle as we lean into market demand and build out our next-generation fleets.

Turning to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with approximately $677 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, an increase of approximately $406 million sequentially. The increase is driven primarily by our convertible note raise in September. We achieved an excellent outcome, raising $460 million at a 0.5% interest rate for a 5-year term. Use of proceeds for the transaction are general corporate purposes with a portion of the proceeds used to purchase a capped call, allowing us to avoid dilution up to a stock price of $18.04, providing net proceeds of approximately $406 million. This capital provides us a strategic asset in the form of a very strong balance sheet.

Year-to-date, we generated approximately $114 million in net cash from operating activities and $55 million in free cash flow. Our focus remains on managing the business to enable sustainable cash flow generation through efficient growth across our data, solutions and satellite services revenue streams. At the end of Q3, our remaining performance obligations, or RPOs, were approximately $672 million, up about 361% year-over-year, of which approximately 33% apply to the next 12 months and 59% to the next 24 months. We estimate our backlog, which includes contracts with the termination for convenience clause to be approximately $734 million, up about 216% year-over-year. Approximately 37% of our backlog applies to the next 12 months and 61% to the next 2 years.

Let me turn now to our guidance for the fourth quarter and full year for fiscal 2026. In Q4, we're expecting revenue to be between $76 million and $80 million, which represents approximately 27% year-on-year growth at the midpoint and excludes many of the onetime factors that drove upside in Q3. We expect non-GAAP gross margin for the quarter to be between 50% and 52%, driven by our satellite services contract with JSAT, the mix of deals with AI-enabled partner solutions and investments in our next-generation fleets. Our range for adjusted EBITDA loss in the fourth quarter is expected to be between minus $7 million and minus $5 million, reflecting our investments to drive sustained growth across both AI-enabled solutions and our next-generation fleets.

We are planning for capital expenditures of approximately $22 million to $26 million in Q4. For the full fiscal year 2026, we now expect revenue to be between $297 million and $301 million. This increase reflects our strong performance in Q3 and improved outlook for Q4 as we've seen some of our U.S. government contracts come in. We believe our backlog provides us with good visibility to sustain our Q4 revenue growth rate into fiscal '27 and achieve our revenue and adjusted EBITDA targets as shared at our Investor Day in October. You can find these details in our Investor Day presentation on our Investor Relations website.

We are updating our guidance for non-GAAP gross margin for fiscal 2026 to be between 57% to 58%, reflecting the better-than-expected gross margins during Q3. We expect our adjusted EBITDA profit for fiscal 2026 to be between $6 million and $8 million, reflecting the strong performance we've seen throughout the year in revenue and cost efficiencies even as we continue to invest in downstream solutions and our space systems capabilities. Achieving adjusted EBITDA profitability on an annual basis represents a major milestone in the company's maturity and reflects the hard work of our global teams in focusing our investments in the highest priority growth areas.

We are planning for capital expenditures of approximately $81 million to $85 million for the year as the increased investments we're making in our satellite fleets puts us in a strong position to meet accelerating market demand. As I mentioned earlier, we're also pulling forward some investments to take advantage of some favorable pricing opportunities. We continue to expect to be free cash flow positive on an annual basis this year. While quarterly results may vary due to the timing of cash collections, CapEx requirements and other factors, we remain focused on generating sustainable annual positive cash flow. As always, we're incredibly grateful for the ingenuity, collaboration and achievements of our Planet team. These stellar results were made possible by your hard work.

Operator, that concludes our comments. We can now take questions.