Palantir Technologies Inc. (PLTR) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 3, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Ana Soro
Ryan Taylor - Chief Revenue Officer & Chief Legal Officer
Shyam Sankar - CTO & Executive VP
David Glazer - CFO & Treasurer
Alexander Karp - Co-Founder, CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Daniel Ives - Wedbush Securities Inc., Research Division
Mariana Perez Mora - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Ana Soro

Good afternoon. I'm Ana Soro from Palantir's finance team, and I'd like to welcome you to our third quarter 2025 earnings call. We'll be discussing the results announced in our press release issued after the market close and posted on our Investor Relations website.

During the call, we will make statements regarding our business that may be considered forward-looking within applicable securities laws, including statements regarding our fourth quarter and fiscal 2025 results, management's expectations for our future financial and operational performance, and other statements regarding our plans, prospects and expectations. These statements are not promises or guarantees and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause them to differ materially from actual results. Information concerning those risks is available in our earnings press release distributed after the market closed today and in our SEC filings. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements, except as required by law.

Further, during the course of today's call, we will refer to certain adjusted financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures. Additional information about these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliation of non-GAAP to comparable GAAP measures is included in our press release and investor presentation provided today. Our press release, investor presentation and other earnings materials are available on our Investor Relations website at investors.palantir.com.

Over the course of the call, we will refer to various growth rates when discussing our business. These rates reflect year-over-year comparisons unless otherwise stated.

Joining me on today's call are Alex Karp, Chief Executive Officer; Shyam Sankar, Chief Technology Officer; Dave Glazer, Chief Financial Officer; and Ryan Taylor, Chief Revenue Officer and Chief Legal Officer.

I'll now turn it over to Ryan to start the call.

Ryan Taylor
Chief Revenue Officer & Chief Legal Officer

We had a monumental third quarter shattering expectations yet again. Our overall revenue grew 63% year-over-year and 18% sequentially. We outperformed across the board, driven by strong execution in the U.S. which accounted for 3/4 of our business in Q3, growing 77% year-over-year and 20% sequentially. Our Rule of 40 score soared to an unprecedented 114%, up 4 points year-over-year and a full 20 points since last quarter alone, reinforcing our position as the defining enterprise software company of our generation.

Our U.S. commercial business grew an incredible 121% year-over-year and 29% sequentially, driven both by insatiable demand and the quantified exceptionalism compelling customers to scale AIP across their operations. Organizations are embracing an undeniable truth. Real enterprise AI at scale requires Palantir. We're seeing that AIP again and again, is the only platform delivering transformational impact in this market. And critically, AIP is the only AI platform that has an actual plan for compounding your enterprise's AI leverage, not just the model makers' leverage over you. Sharing this leverage with our customers is our highest priority. Our whole company is singularly focused around value creation for our customers, and I'm proud to share with you all the fruits of our labor.

We closed our highest TCV quarter ever at $2.8 billion. Underlying this performance, we closed a staggering 204 deals worth $1 million or more of which 91 deals were worth $5 million or more and 53 deals were worth $10 million or more. In our U.S. commercial business, which now accounts for 34% of our overall revenue. We closed $1.3 billion in TCV, a milestone achievement for the fastest-growing area of our business with a more than 6x year-over-year growth rate on a dollar-weighted duration basis. The trajectory is clear. Customers are converting to larger enterprise agreements in short time frames, reflecting both the expanding scope of their AI ambitions and the immediate impact our software delivers.

A leading medical device manufacturer signed a multiyear expansion just 5 months after their initial contract, increasing ACV more than eightfold. 2 weeks into their initial contract, the conversation evolved from a single use case to pursuing the opportunity of becoming an AI-first enterprise. Their CEO approached me to embrace a shared vision for an enterprise-wide AIP deployment to transform their entire organization. This transformation reflects a broader pattern we're seeing across our customer base. AI is a strategic imperative owned at the C-suite level with executive leadership recognizing the enterprise-wide AI adoption is the defining factor separating the AI haves and the AI have-nots.

We're seeing C-suite-driven AI transformations across our customers. At a leading insurance company, the CEO has taken personal ownership of their AI transformation, meeting with our team regularly to orchestrate a company-wide transformation around AIP, reimagining every function from underwriting to claims processing, leading to a significant expansion of our work together. Our partnership with TWG Global named Vergence.ai continues to gain momentum as TWG's Thomas Tull noted "what was once a competitive advantage is now a competitive necessity." Companies that fail to incorporate AI into their core operations will be outpaced by those that do. These examples underscore what we are seeing. We are the only platform bringing true transformational impact to the enterprise AI market.

Turning to our U.S. government business. Revenue grew 52% year-over-year and 14% sequentially as we continue to deliver mission-critical capabilities. We remain deeply committed to our founding mission of supporting the U.S. government honored by the privilege of equipping our nation with transformative software that actually works. We remain focused on delivering the most advanced defense capabilities in the world to the U.S. government and internationally to our allied partners around the world. The momentum we're carrying into Q4 is extraordinary. As we look towards the end of the year, our mission is clear: deliver the production capabilities that turn AI from promise into performance for the enterprises defining the future of their industries through AIP's compounding AI leverage.

I'll now turn it over to Shyam.

Shyam Sankar
CTO & Executive VP

Thanks, Ryan. 20 years of grinding has built a unique moat and a growing lead. Our products were built for this moment, and the numbers continue to show it. Realizing value from AI in the enterprise requires the elegant integration of LLMs workflow and software. And this is only possible with ontology. Our foundational investments in ontology and infrastructure have positioned us to uniquely deliver on AI demand now and in the world ahead. The most significant product developments are the accelerating progress in our AI applications inside of AIP, our AIP native development agent that understands how to connect to data sources, how to integrate and transform data, how to create ontologies and functions and build applications.

It's unleashing incredible speed and productivity for our FDEs and customer developer is alike. At 1 customer, 2 human FDEs spawned an army of AI FDEs to migrate a customer off their legacy data warehouse in 5 days, something that would have taken an army of SIs up to 2 years. This is not a prototype. This is production across our customers, the results are shocking.

AI Hivemind is a new AIP capability that orchestrates a form of a dynamically generated agents to tackle hard problem solving, idea generation refinement and executable proposal generation that is integrated with ontology and therefore, aware of the context of your enterprise. AI Hivemind was originally developed to solve extremely complex problems in the classified space. But it's already been used to help our commercial customers identify bottlenecks in their supply chain, proactively developing possible solutions and then leveraging AI FDE to code that up into an actual solution.

In the government space, AI Hivemind is able to take its proposals and generate intricate mission plans right in Gaia and Maverick. Our focus with AIP continues to be enterprise autonomy, our normative view of where the value is for AI in the enterprise. Hivemind now lets the AI develop novel solutions to emergent challenges and to identify hidden opportunities. And the rest of AIP enables you to turn those ideas into an implemented reality. Closed-loop evolution of the business with AI possible because of AIP in ontology. We continue to make investments that allow enterprises to extend AIP to the far edge. Edge Ontology is a new lightweight implementation of ontology that runs on mobile devices. It enables customers to build mobile applications or embedded software for hardware, things like drones and robots and is fully integrated with your enterprises' AIP instance.

Turning to field-facing updates. The U.S. Army issued an official public memo directing all army organizations to consolidate and centralize on Vantage, the Army data platform built on foundry and AIP. The Army views this, not merely as a technical decision, but a cultural decision, enabling the data-driven decision-making that continues to make our army the most lethal in the world. This directive will enable the Army to rapidly sunset legacy systems and enable more investment in the Army's Future Force concept and systems. Warp Speed and the American Tech Fellowship are early investments to support manufacturing and reindustrialization in America are bearing fruit.

While Warp Speed launched by helping new defense entrants meet their surging production goals, it's now being rapidly adopted across the traditional defense industrial base and the maritime industrial base. The second cohort of the American Tech Fellowship will be wrapping up in the next few weeks. We started the American Tech Fellowship because we noticed that many of our best builders were frontline workers. They don't come from conventional consulting backgrounds. They don't have formal computer science backgrounds.

To highlight a few of these folks, Mason, a Louisiana-based civil engineer is building AI applications for more accurate estimates for heavy construction projects, something that is only going to grow with our reindustrialization. Michael, who works for a potato farm in North Dakota is streamlining its operations and Cody from Georgia, who is a utilities expert is building in foundry to deliver safe, reliable energy across the South.

These Americans are the true face of innovation, underscoring that it will be the American worker with AI that drives reindustrialization and American prosperity. Our customers have taken notice and asked us to create American tech fellowship programs for their employees, specifically to include Lear who highlighted their fellowship in their recent earnings call.

With that, I'll turn it over to Dave to take us through the numbers.

David Glazer
CFO & Treasurer

Thanks, Shyam. We had an outstanding third quarter achieving a Rule of 40 score of 114%, our highest ever by 20 points. We also generated our highest ever reported revenue growth rate of 63% year-over-year exceeding the high end of our prior guidance by 1,300 basis points and representing a 3,300 basis point increase compared to the growth rate in Q3 of last year.

On the back of this extraordinary strength, we are guiding to revenue of $1.329 billion in the fourth quarter, representing 13% growth quarter-over-quarter, our highest-ever sequential revenue growth guide and 61% growth year-over-year. We're also raising our full year 2025 revenue guidance midpoint to $4.398 billion, representing a 53% year-over-year growth rate and 8-point or $252 million increase over our full year 2025 revenue guidance last quarter.

In addition, we're raising our full year U.S. commercial revenue guidance to an excess of $1.433 billion, representing a growth rate of at least 104% year-over-year, a 19-point increase over the guidance we gave just last quarter. Accelerating demand for AIP continues to drive the outperformance in our U.S. business overall, which grew 77% year-over-year and 20% sequentially in the third quarter. Our U.S. commercial business grew 121% year-over-year and 29% sequentially and our U.S. government business grew 52% year-over-year and 14% sequentially.

We delivered these exceptional top line results while also achieving our highest ever reported adjusted operating margin of 51%, exceeding the high end of our prior guidance by 500 basis points and highlighting the unit economics of our business at scale. Our revenue and profitability drove a 20-point sequential increase to our Rule of 40 score from 94% in the second quarter to 114% in the third quarter. On a trailing 12-month basis, we generated $2 billion in adjusted free cash flow for the first time in the company's history.

Turning to our global top line results. Third quarter revenue grew 63% year-over-year and 18% sequentially to $1.181 billion. Third quarter U.S. revenue grew 77% year-over-year and 20% sequentially to $883 million. Excluding the impact of revenue from strategic commercial contracts, third quarter revenue grew 65% year-over-year and 18% sequentially, and third quarter U.S. revenue grew 78% year-over-year and 20% sequentially.

We closed our highest ever quarter of TCV bookings at $2.8 billion, up 151% year-over-year. This eclipses our prior highest quarter of TCV bookings just last quarter by nearly $0.5 billion. Customer count grew 45% year-over-year and 7% sequentially to 911 customers. Revenue from our largest customers continues to expand. Third quarter trailing 12 months revenue from our top 20 customers increased 38% year-over-year to $83 million per customer.

Now moving to our commercial segment. Third quarter commercial revenue grew 73% year-over-year and 22% sequentially to $548 million. This is the fourth consecutive quarter that revenue from our commercial business has been larger than our U.S. government business. Excluding the impact from strategic commercial contracts, third quarter commercial revenue grew 77% year-over-year and 22% sequentially. We closed $1.4 billion in commercial TCV bookings representing 132% growth year-over-year and 32% sequentially. AIP continues to drive existing customer expansions and new customer conversions in the U.S. Third quarter U.S. commercial revenue grew 121% year-over-year and 29% sequentially to $397 million. Excluding revenue from strategic commercial contracts, third quarter U.S. commercial revenue grew 126% year-over-year and 29% sequentially.

In the third quarter, we closed $1.3 billion of U.S. commercial TCV bookings representing growth of 342% year-over-year and surpassing the $1 billion mark for the first time. Over the past 12 months, we closed $3.8 billion of U.S. commercial TCV bookings a 217% increase from the prior 12 months, highlighting the demand for AI production use cases. Total remaining deal value in our U.S. commercial business grew 199% year-over-year and 30% sequentially. Our U.S. commercial customer count grew to 530 customers, reflecting growth of 65% year-over-year and 9% sequentially.

Third quarter international commercial revenue grew 10% year-over-year and 5% sequentially to $152 million. For international commercial business, we continue to capitalize on targeted growth opportunities in Asia, the Middle East and beyond but remain focused on accelerating the growth in our U.S. business. Revenue from strategic commercial contracts was $2.9 million for the quarter. We anticipate fourth quarter 2025 revenue from these contracts to be between $2 million to $4 million compared to $9.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2024. We anticipate 2025 revenue from these contracts to be less than half of 1% of full year revenue.

Shifting to our Government segment. Third quarter government revenue grew 55% year-over-year and 14% sequentially to $633 million. Third quarter U.S. government revenue grew 52% year-over-year and 14% sequentially to $486 million. This growth was driven by continued execution in existing programs and new awards reflecting the growing demand for AI and our government software offerings. Third quarter international government revenue grew 66% year-over-year and 16% sequentially to $147 million, bolstered primarily by our continued work in the U.K.

As previously mentioned, we closed our highest ever quarter of TCV bookings at $2.8 billion, up 151% year-over-year. Net dollar retention was 134%, an increase of 600 basis points from last quarter. The increase was driven both by expansions of existing customers and new customers acquired in Q3 of last year as we see the effect of the AI revolution. As net dollar tension does not include revenue from new customers that were acquired in the past 12 months, it does not yet fully capture the acceleration and velocity in our U.S. business over the past year.

We ended the third quarter with $8.6 billion in total remaining deal value, an increase of 91% year-over-year and 21% sequentially and $2.6 billion in the remaining performance obligations, an increase of 66% year-over-year and 8% sequentially. As a reminder, RPO is primarily comprised of our commercial business as it does not take into account contracts with an initial term of less than 12 months and contractual obligations that fall beyond termination for convenience clauses, both of which are common in most of our government business.

Turning to margin and expense. Adjusted gross margin, which excludes stock-based compensation expense, was 84% for the quarter. Adjusted income from operations, which excludes stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes was $601 million, representing adjusted operating margin of 51%. Q3 adjusted expense was $581 million, up [ 8% ] sequentially and 29% year-over-year, primarily driven by our continued investment in AIP and technical hiring.

We continue to expect expenses to increase in the fourth quarter as we remain committed to investing in the product pipeline and the most elite technical talent, all while delivering on our goals of sustained GAAP profitability. Third quarter GAAP operating income was $393 million, representing a 33% margin. Third quarter GAAP net income was $476 million, representing a 40% margin. Third quarter stock-based compensation expense was $172 million and equity-related employer payroll tax expense was $35 million. Third quarter GAAP earnings per share was $0.18. Third quarter adjusted earnings per share was $0.21.

Additionally, our combined revenue growth and adjusted operating margin accelerated to 114% in the third quarter, a 20-point increase to our Rule of 40 score from the prior quarter and our ninth consecutive quarter of an expanding Rule of 40 score. With the increase in our 2025 revenue and adjusted operating income guidance, we are now guiding to a Rule of 40 score of 102% for the full year.

Turning to our cash flow. In the third quarter, we generated $508 million in cash from operations and $540 million in adjusted free cash flow, representing margins of 43% and 46%, respectively. Additionally, we achieved $2 billion in trailing 12-month adjusted free cash flow for the first time. Through the end of the third quarter, we repurchased approximately 2.6 million shares as part of our share repurchase program. As of the end of the quarter, we have $880 million remaining of the original authorization. We ended the quarter with $6.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term U.S. Treasury securities.

Now turning to our outlook. For Q4 2025, we expect revenue of between $1.327 billion and $1.331 billion and adjusted income from operations of between $695 million and $699 million. For full year 2025, we are raising our revenue guidance to between $4.396 billion and $4.400 billion. We are raising our U.S. commercial revenue guidance to an excess of $1.433 billion, representing a growth rate of at least 104%. We are raising our adjusted income from operations guidance to between $2.151 billion and $2.155 billion, we are raising our adjusted free cash flow guidance to between $1.9 billion and $2.1 billion, and we continue to expect GAAP operating income and net income in each quarter of this year.

With that, I'll turn it over to Alex for a few remarks, and then Ana will kick off the Q&A.

Alexander Karp
Co-Founder, CEO & Director

Greetings. By any normal or even reasonable standard, these are not normal results. These are not even strong results. These aren't extraordinary results. These are arguably the best results that any software company has ever delivered. And that's not hyperbolic, despite what your analyst friends may want you to believe because they've been wrong at every price, they're wrong in every -- at every single round. But of course, they're perspective and they're not investing our own money. But a normal enterprise company should not have a Rule of 40 above 100%. A normal enterprise company at our base should not have over 100% U.S. commercial growth should not have 77% growth in the U.S.

And by the way, that growth is being held down by a stagnant Europe, which is still a significant part of our business. So the pure unvarnished numbers are 77% growth off of a massive significant base with very significant cash flow with a company that throws off a Rule of 40 of 114%. And then if this world was at all sane, every single person in the financial world would stop and say, how did this happen? How did a company, which stood by the American Warfighter, marine special operators, people in clandestine services who stood up for a right of free speech and was really the first company to be completely anti-woke. How did this company stick up for the American Warfighter, actually give normal Americans venture quality results.

So one of the issues we have with the arbiters of truth is, it was the American worker that we supported and the American worker that we helped make rich. And arbiters of truth somehow did not participate in that because they were such experts. And of course -- but what these numbers show is doing that and taking the American worker along with it and doing it in a way that foreshadowed the future FDE, ontology foundry, making each specific institution, making the American Warfighter fight the way the American Warfighter is born to fight.

Empowering the [ tenets ] of being free and having the ability to do creative things in the battlefield context and then taking enterprises instead of selling them commodity parasitic software with a massive sales force with a kind of lumbering jargon-bearing leaders, offering you stakes and dinners and other things we shall not mention in order that you turn the value -- the high-value revenue of your enterprise over to them in return for these accolades, we created direct alignment with our customers.

And what does that mean? It means when our customers have a unique and triable way of doing something, whether it's underwriting or fighting or making workers even more valuable. We put an FDE, we orchestrated in ontology. We take tribal understanding of their business, the specific nature of their business that makes them particular and valuable and lethal and we empower that.

And how do we participate in that? Unlike seemingly in the most obvious way, we are downstream from the value creation. So when you see 141% or you see 77% or 63% and you ask, and by the way, with really a workforce that is not growing in any way linearly proportional to that growth and also with a sales force which is declining, which seems improbable. The reason why that's working is because we are making our clients more money or we're making them more dominant on the battlefield, and they're paying us a subset of that. And this is why these numbers are so extraordinary. The sociological and political version of this should be, wait a minute, how can we learn from this? How can we implement institutions?

By the way, we have all these people talking about AI [indiscernible]. I'll tell you what 114% proves. There is a massive part of the AI market that actually cares about value creation, and that's the part we own. And we own that part because to do this, you have to have [ FDE ] orchestration, you have to have ontology and you have to have foundry and you have to have access to the game, and you have to have a deep understanding of how to do that. And you have to have done this for a very, very long time with products, by the way, and then the products are getting better and better and better and better.

And I'll let Shyam talk about what we're doing on the battlefield to the extent that he can, but you see the very similar trajectory where we're giving America, both in industry and in government, a massive, unfair advantage. And again, you see it like if you look at our numbers, look at how poorly Europe is doing. Look how well America is doing. Look how we're doing this. And again, it's not just top line. The Rule of 114 that we have shows top line and bottom line growth that is distinctive, massive and unique.

And on top of everything else, there is this issue in the U.S. that we're all focused on at Palantir which is what access -- what portion of the GDP growth that we're blessed to have in this country, meaning GDP growth defined or helped out and bolstered by AI. What percentage of that is available to the American worker. And so when we're -- AI -- GDP availability for the American worker, meaning, do they participate in this growth? Or is it just people around this table who are getting richer and richer. And then you see our platform on the battlefield, as Shyam was mentioning, the people doing the coding in AIP are vocationally trained smart Americans with specific knowledge.

They don't have -- and actually, and you have people on the factory floor, very same thing. People across the nation, truck drivers. Anybody with specific domain expertise is more powerful, more valuable in our product than they were yesterday. In fact, the real misalignment of AI is with people with commodity like high-trained elite institution, general specialists, that's just not as valuable as it was. And yes, the destructive -- positive destruction of capitalism is going to put that class of people.

Typically, the class of people that also is kind of skeptical of Palantir under enormous pressure. But it is our -- what I see in these numbers and what I think we see in these numbers is to be -- put it slightly over the top. Yes, we were right, you were wrong. And we are going to go very, very deep on our rightness because it is exceedingly good for America. It's exceedingly good for the American economy. It's as good for American workers. And you know what, I really enjoy turning on TV and seeing some analysts explain why some other company is better than ours simply because they didn't make any on our company and probably aren't.

And we're just going to keep going and going and going. And then we're obviously not going to forecast for next year. But I would say, if you're thinking about how this company is going to go, look at our ability to value create, look at our ability to create revenue on the top end, look at it -- look at the unit economics of our business. If you're a technical expert in how do you evaluate business, evaluate those numbers against any other business you've ever seen and then make your decision. But yes, I'm wildly enthusiastic. I think we're wildly enthusiastic. And thank you for those of you who stayed with us to enjoy these numbers, especially Palantirians who work day and night to deliver these kind of numbers.