Peloton Interactive, Inc. (PTON) Q1 2026 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

James Marsh - Senior VP & Head of Investor Relations
Peter Stern - CEO, President & Director
Liz Coddington - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Andrew Boone - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Arpine Kocharyan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Marni Lysaght - Macquarie Research
Shweta Khajuria - Wolfe Research, LLC
Bryan Smilek - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Susan Anderson - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. My name is Karen, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Peloton Interactive First Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to James Marsh, SVP of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

James Marsh
Senior VP & Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, and welcome to Peloton's First Quarter Fiscal 2026 Conference Call. Joining today's call are Peloton Chief Executive Officer and President, Peter Stern; and Chief Financial Officer, Liz Coddington.

Our comments and responses to your questions reflect management's views as of today only and will include forward-looking statements related to our business under federal securities law. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to risks and uncertainties associated with our business. Please refer to our SEC filings and today's press release, both of which can be found on our Investor Relations website, for a discussion of our material risks and other important factors that could impact our results.

During this call, we will discuss both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided in today's press release.

I'll now turn the call over to Peter.

Peter Stern
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, James. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. Before I summarize our performance in Q1, I'd like to address our voluntary recall announced earlier today. As previously disclosed, we have received a small number of reports of an Original Series Bike+ seat post breaking during use. As of today, we are aware of 3 such incidents. The well-being of our members is our highest priority. And therefore, in cooperation with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and Health Canada, we are voluntarily recalling approximately 833,000 units in the U.S. and approximately 44,800 units in Canada of the Original Series Bike+ model. These units were manufactured from December 2019 to July 2022 and sold beginning in 2020 to April 2025.

We are offering an updated self-installable seat post replacement, which is the CPSC approved remedy. Impacted members will receive an e-mail with order instructions and the notification will also appear on their Bike+ touchscreen. This recall does not impact any other equipment models, including our new Cross Training Series Bike and Bike+. The anticipated financial impact is reflected in our results and our guidance, including the increases to our adjusted EBITDA guidance and minimum free cash flow target. Liz will share more details about the financial impact later in this call.

Turning our attention to the first quarter of the fiscal year. I am proud of Peloton. In the quarter leading up to our October 1 innovation reveal, our team once again successfully executed on our business priorities, progressed our financial results and delivered positive human impact at scale. As a result, our performance came in above the guidance range on most key financial metrics in this seasonally slower quarter for fitness equipment sales, and we continue to see year-over-year growth in average workout time per Connected Fitness subscription. Looking from the outside in during the first quarter, it may have felt like business as usual, as we continue to demonstrate financial discipline and established a strong foundation for achieving our full year financial guidance. But behind the scenes, the quarter was anything but.

Throughout the quarter, the Peloton team was hard at work, setting the stage for our new chapter by innovating on every aspect of our magic formula of premium equipment, software powered by AI, world-class instructors and a deeply engaged community. In last quarter's remarks, I laid out Peloton's strategy. The first and most foundational part of that strategy is our commitment to improving member outcomes. To that end, on October 1, we simultaneously unveiled and began shipping the most significant product update in our history with an all-new equipment lineup, the Peloton Cross Training Series and the Peloton Pro series.

Our understanding of human health has progressed since Peloton took the world by storm with the introduction of the original bike. And today, we know that adults need to pursue a combination of cardio, strength and more to achieve their wellness goals. To that end, all Peloton products now feature advanced swivel screens, allowing members to easily transition between cardio and strength to complete floor workouts, including strength, yoga, Pilates and stretching. Our new Plus line includes an advanced computer vision movement tracking camera that counts your reps, corrects your form and offers weight suggestions in real time, along with voice control, enabling members to adjust weights, skip moves or pause their workout without touching a thing.

We've made several additional upgrades, including improvements in audio across the board and featuring sound by Sonos in our Plus line for a studio-like experience. On October 1, we also launched Peloton IQ, which gives every Peloton member a personalized coach regardless of whether they own our new Cross Training Series, our Original Series or work out with a Peloton app subscription. Peloton IQ uses AI to turn years of insights and data points, including your goals, class activity and health stats from wearable devices into personal training guidance. In so doing, Peloton IQ makes some of the benefits of personal training accessible to millions of people, providing individual insights and recommendations based on members' intentions, preferences, level of fitness and performance.

Since launching the Cross Training Series and Peloton IQ, we've observed a favorable mix shift toward our more premium products, including a mix shift toward Tread sales and toward our Plus line of products, the latter of which we believe is driven by excitement around the advanced computer vision features. Beyond our work on cardio and strength, the trust we've built with our community gives us an opportunity to address an even broader array of wellness domains. In September, we acquired Breathwrk, an award-winning app specializing in breathing exercises, which have been shown to positively impact sleep, focus, blood pressure, heart rate variability, stress and anxiety. The Breathwrk subscription app makes mental fitness accessible to all, and now our members can enjoy Breathwrk as part of their All-Access or App+ subscriptions. We'll have more to share over time as we evolve in this important category.

We also announced a first-of-its-kind collaboration with the Hospital for Special Surgery, the world leader in orthopedics to offer Peloton members access to expert care for joint and muscle pain, injuries and orthopedic conditions. We've co-developed class collections with HSS medical experts, recently launching the first 5 on preventing some of the most common types of injuries. We're also committed to meeting members where they are in their life stages. In response to member demand, we started with menopause, a life stage that impacts the majority of our members at some point in their lives. We're extremely proud of our partnership with Respin Health, founded by Halle Berry to revolutionize menopause care with an integrated holistic approach, and have just launched a study with over 1,000 women to measure the benefits of targeted movement strategies and other evidence-based lifestyle interventions. These findings will power our evolving evidence-based exercise programming and menopause support.

The second part of our strategy is to meet members everywhere. We have made great progress on this front over the past few weeks. We now have 10 micro stores in the U.S., up from 1 prior to Q1. And we also announced a new retail partnership with Johnson Fitness & Wellness, the nation's largest independent fitness retailer with 100 locations across the U.S. We now have a physical retail presence in 46 states, while in Australia, we launched a retail presence in 11 franchise locations throughout the country. Our expanded retail footprint positions us well for the holiday season, providing opportunities for consumers to test and experience our new innovations.

Our commercial business unit continues to show strong performance and is an area in which we are also innovating. The new Peloton Pro series offers a complete lineup of Peloton equipment for commercial environments such as hotel gyms and multi-residential buildings, and includes the Tread+ Pro, Peloton's first ever commercial treadmill. And Precor launched its new commercial Tread, the Breakaway. This new slat belt treadmill includes a sled-style push mode, cadence coach and a new console design. Peloton also recently became the primary fitness partner powering Utah City, a 700-acre mixed-use development outside of Salt Lake City. And now every residential building in Utah City will feature a Peloton space that includes several pieces of Peloton equipment and accessories for residents.

The third part of our strategy is to make members for life. Celebrating achievement is crucial for sticking with any program. So last month, we launched Club Peloton, our first loyalty and recognition program. As members engage with our platform, they progress through levels from bronze to legend, unlocking exclusive content recognition and rewards. Already more than 500,000 members have engaged with Club Peloton. On October 1, we also introduced official Peloton teams led by Peloton instructors, including Move for Life, Menopause, HYROX and Cross Training. These teams provide a forum for members to connect, discuss goals and learn from each other and from experts, further elevating Peloton's community. Since October 1, engagement with teams is up nearly 50%.

Ultimately, all these strategic initiatives, product innovation, wellness expansion and new distribution are underpinned by the fourth part of our strategy, our commitment to operational discipline and business excellence. Our full year guidance announced in August included targeted initiatives to improve monetization, such as the introduction of expert assembly fees. These were implemented within the quarter and exceeded our expectations. At the same time, our cost reduction plans remain on track. Perhaps most important, we remain confident in our ability to inflect toward revenue growth as the fiscal year progresses, building on the actions we took in Q1 and on October 1. We continue to monitor and respond to evolving tariff policies and broader changes in the macro environment and consumer spending. While those external factors are real, our focus remains on execution and being the best fitness and wellness partner to our members.

We believe we offer an unmatched ecosystem of products and experiences to help our members invest in their health and well-being. As we enter this important holiday season, Peloton is exceptionally well positioned with great new equipment, Peloton IQ, new wellness partnerships, expanded distribution, a resurgent commercial business unit, new loyalty features, successful monetization changes and improvements in our financial performance.

I'll now pass it over to Liz, who will share more details about our Q1 financial results and guidance for the remainder of the year.

Liz Coddington
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Peter. I want to begin with our first quarter financial results in which we exceeded the high end of our guidance on most key metrics. We ended the first quarter with 2.732 million Paid Connected Fitness Subscriptions, reflecting a decrease of 6% year-over-year. Q1 is typically a seasonally lower quarter for hardware sales and seasonally higher quarter for churn. We exceeded the high end of our guidance range by 2,000, driven by higher-than-expected gross additions. Connected Fitness gross additions outperformed our expectations due to higher unit sales of our Connected Fitness products in both first-party and third-party retail channels. Average net monthly Paid Connected Fitness Subscription churn was 1.6%, an improvement of 20 basis points both year-over-year and 10 basis points quarter-over-quarter, in line with our expectations.

We ended the quarter with 542,000 ending paid app subscriptions, inclusive of subscriptions from our acquisition of Breathwrk. Total revenue was $551 million in Q1, comprising $152 million of Connected Fitness products revenue and $398 million of subscription revenue, outperforming the high end of our guidance range by $6 million. Outperformance relative to guidance was primarily driven by Connected Fitness products revenue from higher-than-expected hardware sales of both Peloton and Precor products. Connected Fitness products revenue decreased $7 million or 5% year-over-year, driven by lower equipment sales and deliveries, partially offset by a mix toward higher-priced products.

Subscription revenue decreased $28 million or 7% year-over-year, primarily driven by lower ending Paid Connected Fitness Subscriptions, lower content licensing revenue and lower ending paid app subscriptions, partly offset by used equipment activation fee revenue, which was introduced in late August of fiscal 2025. Total gross profit was $284 million in Q1, a decrease of $20 million or 7% year-over-year. Total gross margin was 51.5%, a decrease of 30 basis points year-over-year and 50 basis points below our guidance of 52%. Total gross margin was negatively impacted by a $13.5 million accrual for Bike+ seat post inventory costs this quarter, in addition to $3 million we accrued in the prior quarter, representing a total estimated impact of $16.5 million. Excluding this $13.5 million charge in Q1, total gross margin would have been 54% or 200 basis points above our Q1 guidance.

Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2026, we began assigning executive compensation and other corporate overhead expenses associated with our corporate facilities as we focus on driving more accountability for costs at a functional level. Prior to fiscal 2026, these costs were all recorded in G&A, but starting in Q1 are assigned across cost of goods sold, sales and marketing, G&A and R&D. Connected Fitness products gross margin was 6.9%, a decrease of 230 basis points year-over-year, primarily driven by the Bike+ seat post inventory accrual I just noted. Excluding the inventory accrual, Connected Fitness products gross margin would have been 15.8%, an improvement of 660 basis points year-over-year, driven by a mix shift toward higher-margin products, lower warranty costs, a decrease in inventory reserves and lower warehousing and distribution costs.

Subscription gross margin was 68.6%, an increase of 80 basis points year-over-year. Total operating expenses, excluding restructuring, impairment and supplier settlement expenses were $230 million in Q1, a decrease of $30 million or 12% year-over-year, reflecting the continued progress we've made in rightsizing our cost structure as well as a reduction to advertising expenses in Q1 ahead of our hardware portfolio refresh announced on October 1. We are on track to achieve our target to deliver at least $100 million of run rate cost savings by the end of fiscal 2026. Sales and marketing expenses were $67 million in Q1, a decrease of $15 million or 18% year-over-year, primarily driven by decreases in acquisition, brand and creative marketing spend as well as a decrease in retail showroom expenses. As of the end of Q1, we had 7 legacy retail showrooms remaining.

Research and development expenses were $62 million in Q1, an increase of $4 million or 6% year-over-year, primarily driven by cost assignments from G&A, which were partially offset by lower product development costs from a reduction in contractor spend. General and administrative expenses were $101 million in Q1, a decrease of $19 million or 16% year-over-year, primarily driven by cost assignments to other functional areas and lower professional fees. This quarter, we recognized $13 million of impairment and restructuring expenses, of which $8 million was noncash. The noncash charges were primarily related to asset write-downs associated with accelerated retail store closures, while the remaining $5 million of cash charges were primarily related to exit and disposal costs and professional fees.

Adjusted EBITDA was $118 million in Q1, which was a $2 million or 2% improvement year-over-year and $18 million above the high end of our guidance range. To note, the $13.5 million accrual for Bike+ seat post inventory costs was not added back to adjusted EBITDA. We generated $67 million of free cash flow in Q1, an increase of $57 million year-over-year, significantly outperforming our prior expectation for slightly negative cash flow in the quarter. Free cash flow benefited from tariff-related favorability associated with both lower-than-expected tariff rates and delayed timing for certain tariffs going into effect, lower operating costs associated with realizing indirect cost savings faster than anticipated, revenue favorability and other smaller impacts.

Q1 free cash flow included roughly $30 million of timing favorability. We ended Q1 with $1.104 billion in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, an increase of $64 million quarter-over-quarter. Net debt was $395 million, a decrease of $382 million or 49% year-over-year. Overall, our first quarter profitability performance has enabled us to continue deleveraging our balance sheet. Our gross leverage ratio, defined as our gross principal debt outstanding divided by trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA was 3.8 in Q1, a substantial improvement from the 14 in Q1 of last year.

Similarly, our net leverage ratio, defined as gross principal debt outstanding net of cash and cash equivalents divided by trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA was 1.1 in Q1, down from 7.5 in Q1 of last year. We believe we have more cash on the balance sheet today than we need to run the business and are evaluating opportunities to optimize our capital structure over time. In February 2026, roughly $200 million of 0% convertible notes will come due, and we intend to pay them down at that time. It's also worth noting our $1 billion term loan has a 1% call premium through May of 2026. We are mindful of the timing of when this call premium expires as we evaluate our options. We expect a refinancing to deliver a lower cost of capital and more flexibility to our capital allocation strategy.

Next, I'd like to share context for our financial outlook for Q2 and the remainder of the fiscal year. Our full year fiscal 2026 revenue outlook of $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion is unchanged from what we provided last quarter and reflects a 2% revenue decrease year-over-year at the midpoint. Our recently announced changes to subscription pricing were incorporated into our previous full year outlook. And so far, the impact of those changes has been in line with our expectations. We are pleased that our members continue to see the value in their Peloton membership and the recently added benefits like Peloton IQ, Club Peloton, Breathwrk and more.

As we noted last quarter, our full year guidance anticipates an inflection toward growth during certain quarters within the fiscal year. Our Q2 revenue outlook of $665 million to $685 million reflects this expectation with a slight increase of 0.2% year-over-year at the midpoint and an increase of 23% quarter-over-quarter as a result of seasonally higher equipment sales and recent pricing changes. We are raising our full year fiscal 2026 guidance for total gross margin to 52%, which is an increase of 100 basis points from our prior guidance and an improvement of 110 basis points year-over-year, primarily driven by favorable tariff rates relative to our prior full year guidance as policy continues to evolve, a favorable mix of sales toward higher-margin products and our continued focus on driving cost efficiency to our supply chain. These tailwinds are partially offset by the accrual for the Bike+ seat post inventory impact in Q1.

Q2 total gross margin is expected to be roughly 49%, down 250 basis points quarter-over-quarter due to an expected seasonally higher mix of Connected Fitness products revenue. We are raising our full year fiscal 2026 guidance for adjusted EBITDA to $425 million to $475 million, reflecting an increase of $25 million from our prior guidance and an improvement of 12% year-over-year at the midpoint, driven by favorable gross profit and operating expenses, reflecting our expectation for realizing cost savings faster than previously anticipated. To note, we are increasing our full year guidance by $25 million, notwithstanding the $13.5 million accrual for Bike+ seat post inventory costs in Q1.

Our Q2 outlook for adjusted EBITDA of $55 million to $75 million reflects an increase of 11% year-over-year at the midpoint, but a decrease of 45% quarter-over-quarter due to seasonally higher marketing spend in Q2. Our Q2 guidance for ending Paid Connected Fitness Subscriptions of 2.64 million to 2.67 million reflects a decrease of 8% year-over-year at the midpoint. Average net monthly Paid Connected Fitness Subscription churn is expected to increase year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter due to an increase in subscription cancellations and pauses following our pricing changes announced on October 1. However, our guidance reflects an expectation that our net churn rate will be flat year-over-year in full year fiscal 2026. We also expect gross additions to decrease year-over-year as a result of an expected year-over-year decrease in hardware sales.

Generating meaningful free cash flow remains a top priority. We are raising our full year fiscal 2026 minimum free cash flow target by $50 million to at least $250 million, reflecting the benefit of lower tariffs, both from lower rates and later-than-expected implementation timing and our progress on realizing indirect cost savings sooner. This target reflects our expectations for a roughly $45 million impact to free cash flow as a result of tariff exposure, which remains a dynamic situation that may change in the future. Overall, our guidance for Q2 and the remainder of the fiscal year reflects continued improvement in profitability and progress toward revenue growth. We still expect to achieve the important milestone of positive operating income on a full year basis in fiscal 2026.

Now we'd like to open the line for Q&A.