QUALCOMM Incorporated (QCOM) Q4 2025 Earnings Call November 5, 2025 4:45 PM EST

Company Participants

Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan - Vice President of Investor Relations
Cristiano Amon - CEO, President & Director
Akash Palkhiwala - CFO & COO
Alexander Rogers - President of Qualcomm Technology Licensing (QTL) & Global Affairs

Conference Call Participants

Joshua Buchalter - TD Cowen, Research Division
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Timothy Arcuri - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Stacy Rasgon - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Christopher Caso - Wolfe Research, LLC
Tal Liani - BofA Securities, Research Division
Christopher Muse - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Benjamin Reitzes - Melius Research LLC

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, November 5, 2025. Playback number for today's call is (877) 660-6853. International callers, please dial (201) 612-7415. The playback reservation number is 137-56092. I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan, please go ahead.

Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Cristiano Amon and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Alex Rogers will join the question-and-answer session. You can access our earnings release and a slide presentation that accompany this call on our Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com, and a replay will be available on our website later today. During the call today, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G, and you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website.

We will also make forward-looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business or industry trends or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K, which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. And now to comments from Qualcomm's President and Chief Executive Officer, Cristiano Amon.

Cristiano Amon
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. In fiscal Q4, we delivered another strong quarter with revenues of $11.3 billion and non-GAAP earnings per share of $3, both of which exceeded the high end of our guidance range. QCT revenues of $9.8 billion, up 9% sequentially were driven by strong end customer demand for Snapdragon-powered premium tier Android handsets, continued traction for automotive Snapdragon Digital Chassis and strength in IoT across industrial, Wi-Fi 7 access point, 5G fixed wireless and smart glasses.

In addition, all 3 QCT revenue streams exceeded our expectations including record automotive quarterly revenues in excess of $1 billion. Licensing business revenues were $1.4 billion. Fiscal '25 non-GAAP revenues of $44 billion were up 13% year-over-year, with record QCT annual revenues of $38.4 billion, up 16% year-over-year, including automotive and IoT revenue growth of 36% and 22% year-over-year, respectively. We delivered 18% year-over-year growth in total QCT non-Apple revenues above our prior estimates.

We remain on track to achieve our fiscal '29 long-term revenue commitment as outlined at our 2024 Investor Day. I will now share some key highlights from the business. At Snapdragon Summit in September, we introduced our Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 mobile platform for next-generation flagship AI smartphones. This platform is equipped with our custom-built third-generation Oryon CPU, the fastest mobile CPU ever, along with an upgraded NPU and GPU. With the Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5, we continue to set the pace of innovation in mobile processors.

This year marked our 10th Snapdragon Summit with simultaneous events held in Maui and Beijing, validating the strength of our Snapdragon ecosystem. Leading China OEMs, including Xiaomi, Honor, Vivo and OnePlus announced their flagship phones at our event. More than 1,100 partners, analysts, tech influencers and press attended in person, and our keynotes capture over 26 million unique views across both events. Together with our announcement, Snapdragon Summit generated over 547 million social media impressions.

In addition, our Snapdragon Insiders community of tech enthusiasts, developers and fans has grown to more than 20 million members worldwide. Our highly differentiated technology continues to drive increased brand visibility. And during the quarter, Qualcomm debuted at 39 on the Interbrand Top 100 Global Brands list for 2025, reflecting the strength of Snapdragon. And for the first time ever, Kantar's BrandZ most valuable Global Brands list included Snapdragon, where we ranked #38.

Also at Summit, we unveiled our newest platforms for premium laptops, the Snapdragon X2 Elite and X2 Elite Extreme. Once again, our industry-leading processors continue to outperform competitors, surpassing Intel and AMD in both speed and power efficiency. Our latest NPU sets a new benchmark as the world's fastest AI engine for laptops, also exceeding Intel and AMD in performance. And with the new Oryon Gen 3, we have the world's first 5-gigahertz CPU for the ultra-mobile laptop category with extended battery life.

We now expect approximately 150 designs to be commercialized through 2026 and remain optimistic about the continued momentum for Snapdragon-powered AI PCs. As AI transforms human computer interactions, intelligent wearables and specifically smart glasses are evolving into personal AI devices that can connect the user directly to an AI agent or model. This emerging category is growing at a remarkable pace and has reached an inflection point fueled by very strong demand for smart glasses from Meta.

This quarter alone, Meta introduced several new Snapdragon-powered styles, including the Ray-Ban Meta second-generation glasses, the Oakley Meta Vanguard performance glasses and the Meta Ray-Ban display and neural band. In addition to Meta, our leadership in this space is reflected by the 30 designs in production or development with our global partners. They include Samsung, which recently launched Galaxy XR, a truly multimodal AI headset and the first device for Google's new AI native operating system, Android XR.

We achieved a significant milestone in automotive with the launch of Snapdragon Ride Pilot, our first full system solution for L2+ automated driving. Developed in close collaboration with BMW, it debuted in the automakers' BMW iX3 EV SUV. Powered by our advanced self-driving software stack, Snapdragon Ride Pilot sets a new standard in automated driving, is designed for universal compatibility and seamless integration with automakers, unlocking L2+ driver assistant features like hands-free highway driving and urban navigation for vehicles worldwide.

Snapdragon Ride Pilot is currently validated in 60 countries and extends to 100 in 2026. The broad interest from leading automakers globally is exceeding our expectations. At IAA Mobility, Qualcomm and Google announced an expanded partnership, including the integration of Google Gemini models to our suite of Snapdragon Digital Chassis solutions. Together, we will enable automakers to build and deploy personalized AI agents that act as an in-vehicle assistance, bringing multimodal edge-to-cloud AI to next-generation software-defined vehicles.

In industrial IoT, we completed our acquisition of Arduino, a premier opensource hardware and software company with an IoT development ecosystem of more than 30 million users worldwide. This builds on our acquisitions of Edge Impulse and Foundries.io and accelerate our plans to provide a comprehensive edge AI development platform for a broad set of applications. With these new assets, we're expanding our portfolio to a wide range of customers and verticals, further cementing our position as the leader of AI for the edge.

Additionally, we recently released the Arduino UNO Q single-board computer, powered by the Dragonwing processor. This full stack edge AI platform enables the rapid development of solutions for applications ranging from smart home automation to industrial robotics, drones and more. AI data center growth is moving from training to dedicated inference workloads, and this trend is expected to accelerate in the coming years. The mass adoption and continuous use of AI applications is driving the industry to look for competitive alternatives that prioritize power-efficient performance and cost.

We announced our entry into this market and recently unveiled our AI inference optimized AI200 and AI250 SoCs and associated accelerator cards and racks. We are very pleased to have HUMAIN as our first customer for these solutions with a target deployment of 200 megawatts starting in 2026. Looking ahead, we're executing on a multi-generation road map with an annual cadence. I would like to share that we're looking forward to providing an update in the first half of 2026 on our data center plans, including our roadmap performance and differentiated memory and compute technology.

We'll also highlight our progress in other areas, including advanced robotics, next-generation ADAS, industrial edge AI and 6G devices and AI-powered RAN. As we execute on our strategy and expand our IP and capabilities, we believe we are one of the best positioned companies to lead the expansion of AI to the edge, edge-to-cloud hybrid AI and develop a power-efficient cloud inferencing solution. I will now turn the call over to Akash.

Akash Palkhiwala
CFO & COO

Thank you, Cristiano, and good afternoon, everyone. Let me begin with our fourth fiscal quarter results. We are pleased with our strong non-GAAP performance with revenues of $11.3 billion and EPS of $3, both of which were above the high end of our guidance. QTL revenues of $1.4 billion and EBT margin of 72% were above the midpoint of our guidance, driven by slightly higher handset units. QCT delivered revenues of $9.8 billion and EBT of $2.9 billion with year-over-year growth of 13% and 17%, respectively. QCT EBT margin of 29% was at the high end of our guidance.

QCT handset revenues of $7 billion increased 14% on a year-over-year basis, reflecting increased demand for premium Android handsets powered by our Snapdragon Elite Gen 5 platform. QCT IoT revenues of $1.8 billion grew 7% year-over-year, driven by strength across industrial and networking products and increased demand for AI smart glasses powered by our Snapdragon platform. In QCT Automotive, we surpassed $1 billion quarterly revenue milestone, delivering 17% year-over-year revenue growth as the adoption of our Snapdragon Digital Chassis platform continues to accelerate.

With the recent enactment of the One Big Beautiful tax bill, we now expect our non-GAAP tax rate to remain in the 13% to 14% range going forward, and we anticipate lower cash tax payments relative to prior expectations. This new legislation resulted in a noncash charge of $5.7 billion in the fourth fiscal quarter to reduce the value of our deferred tax assets. This charge is excluded from non-GAAP metrics but impacts our GAAP results. Before turning to guidance, I'd like to take a moment to highlight our strong performance in fiscal '25.

We are incredibly pleased with our execution with non-GAAP revenues of $44 billion and EPS of $12.03, representing year-over-year growth of 13% and 18%, respectively. In QCT, we achieved 16% year-over-year revenue growth, driven by double-digit increases across all revenue streams, with IoT up 22% and automotive growing 36%. We also delivered QCT operating margins of 30%, in line with our long-term target as we have previously outlined. Over the past 5 years, our non-Apple QCT revenues grew at a 15% compounded annual growth rate.

Similarly, over the last 2 years, our non-Apple QCT revenues grew by 17% and 18%, respectively. Lastly, we generated record free cash flow of $12.8 billion. And consistent with our commitment, we returned nearly 100% to stockholders through repurchases and dividends through the year. Now turning to guidance. In the first fiscal quarter, we expect to deliver record results with revenues in the range of $11.8 billion to $12.6 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $3.30 to $3.50. In QTL, we estimate revenues of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion and EBT margins of 74% to 78%.

In QCT, we expect record revenues of $10.3 billion to $10.9 billion and EBT margins of 30% to 32%. We anticipate record QCT handset revenues with low teens percentage growth sequentially, primarily driven by new flagship Android handset launches powered by Snapdragon. Following our outperformance for QCT IoT revenues in the fourth quarter, we expect a sequential decline consistent with last year, driven by seasonality in consumer products. In QCT Automotive, following a record fourth quarter, we estimate revenues in the first fiscal quarter to remain flat to slightly up on a sequential basis.

Lastly, we forecast non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $2.45 billion in the quarter. In closing, as we approach 1 year since outlining our growth strategy at Investor Day, I'd like to provide an update on the progress towards our $22 billion fiscal '29 revenue target across automotive and IoT. In automotive, we've established ourselves as the most strategic silicon partner for OEMs globally. The accelerating adoption of our Snapdragon Digital Chassis platform and 36% year-over-year revenue growth in fiscal '25 puts us on track to achieve our $8 billion revenue target.

Across IoT, the increasing importance of artificial intelligence, high-performance, low-power computing and connectivity validated by our 22% year-over-year revenue growth in fiscal '25 reinforces our confidence in achieving our $14 billion revenue target. In Industrial, increasing customer engagement and growth in design win pipeline, combined with our recent acquisitions to unlock access to 30 million users, underlines our confidence in strong revenue growth through the end of the decade.

In XR, we're exceeding prior expectations on strong demand for AI smart glasses, and we remain the platform of choice for smart glasses and mixed reality devices across leading global OEMs and ecosystems. In PCs, we extended our technology leadership with the recent launch of Snapdragon X2 Elite and X2 Elite Extreme platforms, which deliver multigenerational performance increases across CPU, GPU and AI. Given our strong pipeline of approximately 150 design wins, we're optimistic about the growth potential for Snapdragon-powered AI PCs as we expand our presence across global consumer and enterprise channels.

In networking, our continued innovation and leadership in WiFi, 5G, edge processing and AI, combined with our integrated platform approach positions us to drive content growth and adoption globally. As Cristiano outlined, beyond our revenue target, we're also pursuing incremental opportunities across data center and robotics. Finally, I want to thank our employees for exceptional execution and continuing to deliver industry-leading technologies and products. This concludes our prepared remarks. Back to you, Mauricio.

Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions.