Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Blake Vanier - Vice President of Investor Relations
Jason Liberty - CEO & Chairman
Naftali Holtz - Chief Financial Officer
Michael Bayley - President & CEO of Royal Caribbean International

Conference Call Participants

Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Steven Wieczynski - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
James Hardiman - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Elizabeth Dove - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Conor Cunningham - Melius Research LLC
David Katz - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Morgan, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Royal Caribbean Group Fourth quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I would like to introduce Mr. Blake Vanier, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Vanier, the floor is yours.

Blake Vanier
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for our fourth quarter 2025 earnings call. Joining me here in Miami are Jason Liberty, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Naftali Holtz, our Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Bayley, President and CEO of the Royal Caribbean brand.

Before we get started, I'd like to note that we will be making forward-looking statements during this call. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to our earnings release issued this morning as well as our filings with the SEC for a description of these factors.

We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as circumstances change. Also, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are adjusted as defined, and a reconciliation of all non-GAAP items can be found on our investor website and in our earnings release. Unless we state otherwise, all metrics are on a constant currency adjusted basis.

Jason will begin the call by providing a strategic overview and update on the business. Naftali will follow with a recap of our fourth quarter, the current booking environment and our outlook for 2026. We will then open the call for your questions. With that, I'm pleased to turn the call over to Jason.

Jason Liberty
CEO & Chairman

Thank you, Blake, and good morning, everyone. I'm very pleased to share our fourth quarter and full year 2025 results, our outlook for 2026 and our exciting strategic investments that will continue to shape and accelerate Royal Caribbean Group's future success.

2025 was an outstanding year, defined by strong demand for our brands and vacation experiences, disciplined execution of our strategies, strong balance sheet management and robust financial performance. We delivered a record 9.4 million memorable vacations at a very high customer satisfaction score, achieved nearly $18 billion of total revenue and 33% earnings growth, all while expanding our margins, increasing return on invested capital and reducing leverage.

We generated nearly $6.5 billion of operating cash flow and returned $2 billion to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks. Meanwhile, our scale, profitability and consistent execution enable continued investments in the differentiated experiences and innovations that delight guests and fuel the next chapter of long-term growth.

I want to thank our team members worldwide for their passion and unwavering dedication to providing outstanding vacation experiences every day. Their efforts made our guest vacations memorable and contributed to a successful year for our shareholders. As a global vacation leader, we continue to broaden our vacation ecosystem across ocean, River and land with unique experiences, giving guests more ways to experience the world with our family of brands.

Today, we are announcing a further expansion of Celebrity River Cruises with a commitment for 10 additional ships. This will expand Celebrity River Cruise fleet to 20 vessels by 2031. The expansion will make Celebrity River Cruises one of the largest European River Cruise operators, offering more itineraries in destinations than ever before. We are also announcing the launch of the Royal Caribbean brand's new Discovery Class ships that will redefine how Royal's guests experience the world.

The agreement with the shipyard includes 2 firm order ships, and options for 4 additional ships. And we recently shared the next evolution of our loyalty program with Points Choice, which gives consumers the freedom to earn points on any of our 3 vacation brands and apply them where they matter most, regardless of the ship they're sailing. The expansion of our ocean and River fleets, loyalty enhancements and our growing exclusive destination portfolio strengthens the integrated ecosystem we are building.

These investments broaden our appeal to new guests while deepening the connection with those who already vacation with us, supported by technology and AI that make the experience more seamless and more personal. This approach expands the way guests can vacation with our family of brands and reinforces our vacation of a lifetime strategy.

Now turning to our results. I am very proud of what we have accomplished in 2025. Flawless execution of our incredible teams propelled our strong performance in 2025, elevating demand across our brands and driving durable margin expansion. This resulted in a 33% year-over-year increase in adjusted earnings per share and ROIC in the high teens.

We also invested in key strategic priorities while strengthening the balance sheet and returning capital to shareholders. The year ended on a great note. Fourth quarter net yields grew 2.5% and adjusted EPS was $2.80, higher than our guidance. We also generated strong profitability and margin expansion as we continue to execute on both commercial and cost priorities. With this strong performance, we are on track to achieve our perfected financial targets in 2027.

As we said before, Perfecta is an important milestone on our growth journey, but our ambitions go well beyond it. 2025 was another year of remarkable milestones on our journey to expand the way our guests can experience our brands across ship and shore. We welcomed Royal Caribbean Star of the Seas, took delivery of Celebrity Xcel, launched Celebrity River Cruises and finally, in late December, opened the Royal Beach Club Paradise Island.

Our joint venture with TUI Cruises also added to this momentum with the delivery of Mein Schiff Relax, the first vessel in its new class and the largest ship in its fleet. We also continue to invest in technology and innovation that makes our vacations easier to discover, easier to plan and more personalized while making our business smarter and more efficient.

Over the past year, we further embedded disruptive technologies like AI across all commercial and operational areas. I'll provide more detail on our tech investments later in the call. 2025 demonstrated the power of our model and the strength of our platform, and it sets us up well for 2026 and future years. Our momentum continues into 2026. The wave is off to a record start. We experienced the best 7 booking weeks in the company's history since the last earnings call.

As a result, we are already about 2/3 booked for the year with book load factors well within historical ranges at record rates. This sets us up to optimize pricing and yield growth as we continue to build the book of business for the balance of the year. All commercial channels are delivering quality demand with direct-to-consumer performing particularly well.

Last year, we added hundreds of new digital capabilities as consumers preference for digital engagement continues to grow. Our increasingly connected ecosystem aims to make vacation planning straightforward and seamless. Travel partners are also delivering meaningful more bookings than last year and at higher rates.

Our spectacular new ships continue to generate strong high-quality demand. Star of the Seas and Celebrity Xcel are exceeding expectations and Legend of the Seas, our first Icon Class ship debut in Europe later this year, is experiencing very strong booking trends.

Our latest research shows that our consumers feel financially secure and continue to prioritize experiences with 40% planning to increase leisure travel spending in the next year. The Cruise value proposition continues to resonate due to quality amenities, value and convenience.

Looking ahead for 2026, our proven formula will continue to generate strong financial results. Moderate capacity growth, although 2026 will be a bit higher at mid-single digits, moderate yield growth and strong cost control. Combination of those 3 things create meaningful margin expansion, increased cash flow and drives a stronger balance sheet. That's the model we plan for, and it's the model we're executing today while also funding future growth and expanding capital return to shareholders.

Revenue is expected to increase double digit year-over-year, resulting in full year net yield growth in the range of 1.5% to 3.5%. We expect positive yield growth for our key products, including the Caribbean, as our investments continue to differentiate us and strengthen our leadership position even in a period of elevated capacity growth in the region.

Full year adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $17.70 to $18.10, a 14% year-over-year increase. We also expect to deliver over $7 billion of operating cash flow this year, and we continue to prioritize strategic investments into our future while enhancing capital returns to shareholders through competitive dividends and opportunistic share repurchase programs.

At Royal Caribbean Group, our strategy is centered on creating a lifetime of vacations for our guests by continually strengthening the ecosystem that makes those experiences possible. We are extending our competitive moat through differentiated experiences, world-class brands, exclusive destinations, and industry-leading loyalty program and technological investments that remove friction and make every interaction more personalized.

Together, these elements reinforce our lifetime of vacation ecosystem, attracting new guests, driving more frequency and long-term loyalty that translates into sustainable growth and shareholder value. A cornerstone of that strategy is our exclusive destination portfolio. We're especially excited about Royal Beach Club Paradise Island, which opened in December and is off to an incredible start. Guest response has been exceptionally positive, reinforcing our confidence in the role these experiences play as we continue to expand our destination platform.

Innovation on the ship side remains a key differentiator. New ships do more than add capacity. They expand the experience, broaden the guest base and raise guest satisfaction, all while driving and enabling better financial results. And today's announcement of the new discovery class of ships on our Royal Caribbean brand is the next step in our innovation road map designed to continue to raise the bar for our guest experience and to extend our leadership in the vacation space.

We'll share more details as we go, but it will follow our disciplined approach, investing in product leadership and high-return growth that compounds over time. As I shared at the beginning of the call, we are expanding our River business with a commitment for 10 additional ships that will expand the celebrity River Cruise fleet to 20 vessels by 2031.

We see River cruising as an exciting growth opportunity that adds an incremental vacation choice and expands the moments and occasions guests can experience with us, all while deepening loyalty across our family of brands. Finally, AI and disruptive technology are becoming a foundational advantage for us, representing a core capability that improves the guest experience, strengthens our commercial engine and helps us run the business more intelligently.

Our digital channels are increasing the gateway to long-term guest value, highlighted by a 25% year-over-year increase in active users on the app in the fourth quarter. E-commerce traffic was up 10% year-over-year in 2025 with conversions improving throughout the year. As it relates to disruptive technology, including AI and GenAI, we're scaling in 2 complementary ways. First, we're investing in enterprise programs that deliver better guest satisfaction and experience while improving revenue and margin, helping us to fundamentally change how we run the business.

And second, we're infusing these technologies across the organization through smaller practical use cases that create momentum, productivity and confidence at the individual and team level. We are improving our ability to curate and personalize what guests see while increasing pre-cruise engagement because a vacation is better when it's easier to plan and easier to personalize.

The goal is to reduce friction, improve the experience and present relevant options that add value to the guests. We are also using AI to improve efficiency and execution from supply chain forecasting to energy management and marine operations. These are the types of capabilities that build durable operating leverage over time and reinforce our focus on margin expansion and returns.

Disruptive technology is not just a tool, it's a capability that we have been building for more than 5 years. It helps us deliver a better experience, run a smarter operation and strengthen the ecosystem we're building for long-term growth. In closing, 2025 was an exceptional year, and we entered 2026 from a position of strength, a differentiated vacation platform, a strong balance sheet and a disciplined approach to growth and returns.

And with that, I will turn it over to Naftali. Naf?

Naftali Holtz
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone. I will start by reviewing fourth quarter results. Net yields grew 2.5% in constant currency, 5 basis points above the midpoint of our guidance. Yields grew across all key products on 10% capacity growth and were driven by both new and existing hardware. Total revenue growth in the fourth quarter was 13%.

Net cruise costs, excluding fuel, decreased 6.3% in constant currency, in line with our guidance as we remain focused on identifying sustainable efficiencies in our operations while further enhancing our vacation offerings. Adjusted earnings per share were $2.80. Earnings outperformance compared to guidance was driven by favorable revenue and better performance across our joint ventures.

The fourth quarter capped an incredible year for us as strong demand for our vacation experiences, coupled with strong execution by our teams resulted in happy guests and robust financial results. Guest satisfaction continues to outpace industry standards and remains exceptionally strong, where we consistently achieved significant improvements in financial performance.

For the full year, total revenue grew 8.8%. Adjusted EBITDA grew by 17.6% to just over $7 billion and adjusted EPS grew 33% to $15.64. At the same time, we generated $6.4 billion of operating cash flow, achieved an investment-grade balance sheet and returned $2 billion of capital to shareholders, all while investing more than $5 billion in our future.

Since 2019, we have transformed the Royal Caribbean Group into a stronger, more profitable and more resilient vacation platform, solidifying our strong financial foundation. Total guests increased 45% since 2019 with millennials and younger nearly doubling. At the same time, we saw strong growth from both new and repeat guests. Total revenue has increased by 64% and adjusted EBITDA has surged 94% since 2019. Net income more than doubled and operating cash flow grew 75%, supporting continued growth and long-term shareholder return.

Moving to our 2026 outlook. I will start with capacity and deployment for the year. With the introduction of Legend and the annualized impact of Star and Xcel, capacity is expected to be up 6.7% year-over-year on the higher end of our moderate capacity growth.

While the amount of dry docks is modestly higher than 2025, the cadence and its impact on the quarterly capacity is different. We have less capacity in dry dock in the first quarter and more in the second quarter. It is also worth noting that on average, we have more premium hardware in dry dock this year when compared to last year, hurting yield comparisons, and this is most pronounced in the second quarter.

We expect APCDs to grow 8.5% in the first and third quarters and 5% in the second and fourth quarter. As Jason mentioned, the year is off to a very strong start. Booked load factors remain within historical ranges at record rates with approximately 2/3 of 2026 inventory having already been booked at higher rates.

Our deployment mix is consistent with last year. The Caribbean represents 57% of our capacity, growing 8% compared to last year, with the full year impact of Star of the Seas and Celebrity Xcel. Caribbean yields have grown 35% since 2019, and we expect continued yield growth in 2026 even as capacity in the region is increasing.

The Caribbean continues to be the most desired cruise destination by consumers and the best way to experience the Caribbean is with the Royal Caribbean Group. The combination of leading brands, the best hardware and exclusive destinations results in the region outperforming in both NPS and profitability. We continue to differentiate in the Caribbean market. We have the best hardware in the market with 6 Oasis class ships and 3 Icon Class ships.

Over 70% of guests on these itineraries sailing on the Royal Caribbean brand will visit a private destination this year, and that percentage will increase to 90% in 2028 with the opening of the Beach Club in Cosmo and Perfect Day, Mexico. Europe will account for 15% of capacity and is growing 5% versus last year, including Legend of the Seas debuting in Europe this summer.

European sailings continue to perform very well on both rate and volume with strong demand from both American and European consumers. It is worth noting that while European capacity, which is high yielding, is up for the year, it is down the first half of the year, driven by a decrease in the second quarter due to dry dock timing.

Alaska is expected to account for 5% of total capacity and is up 3% versus last year. We have some of the best hardware in the region, including Celebrity Edge, 2 Quantum-class ships and Silver Moon.

Turning to our 2026 guidance. We expect yield growth of 1.5% to 3.5% from both new and like-for-like hardware. With a projected capacity increase of 6.7%, revenue for 2026 is expected to achieve a double-digit growth rate. Our leading vacation platform anchored by attractive value proposition and supported by strategic investments enables us to grow both capacity and rate, setting us apart within the vacation market.

We do expect net yield growth to be higher in the second half of the year compared to the first half, given the impact of dry dock timing, the ramp-up of Rose Beach Club Paradise Island, timing of new ship deliveries and deployment mix changes.

Full year net cruise costs, excluding fuel, are expected to be flat to up 1%, following a 10 basis points decrease in 2025. There are also about 200 basis points of cost headwinds, mainly related to our private destinations portfolio ramp-up that come without APCD increase. The cadence of our cost growth varies throughout the year with first half cost growth expected to be higher than second half, driven mainly by timing of dry docks and year-over-year quarterly comps compared to 2025.

We anticipate full year fuel expense of approximately $1.17 billion, with 60% of our projected fuel consumption hedged. Approximately 10% of our fuel consumption is expected to be from LNG and biofuel blends compared to 8% in 2025. Fuel efficiency continues to improve with fuel consumption per APCD reducing by approximately 4% compared to 2025, driven by new hardware and deployment optimization.

As a reminder, the scope of the European Union Emissions Trading System, or EU ETS will expand in 2026 to cover 100% of emissions associated with our European itineraries, up from 70% in 2025. Based on current fuel prices, currency exchange rates and interest expense, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $17.70 and $18.10, a 14% year-over-year growth at the midpoint.

This also represents a 23% CAGR over the first 2 years of Perfecta, which sets us up well to achieve our targets by 2027. We expect adjusted EBITDA to be a little shy of $8 billion, a 13% year-over-year growth and adjusted EBITDA margin that is just over 40%. Strong growth and improved profitability enable us to enhance cash flow, invest in key initiatives, maintain investment-grade metrics and increase capital returns to shareholders.

We expect to invest $5 billion of capital into our key strategic growth initiatives as well as ensuring our assets are well maintained. We are set to deliver Legend of the Seas in the second quarter with committed financing in place. Non-ship capital is expected to be $1.8 billion with a significant portion related to our private destination portfolio, Santorini Beach Club, the Cosmo Beach Club and Perfect Day Mexico as well as our fleet modernization program that ensures we keep elevating the guest experience and enhancing financial performance.

Now I will discuss our first quarter guidance. In the first quarter, capacity will be up 8.5% year-over-year. More than 70% of our capacity will be in the Caribbean, 16% in Asia Pacific and the remaining capacity is spread across several other itineraries. Net yields are expected to be up 1% to 1.5% in constant currency. This includes an impact of 30 basis points from recent itinerary modifications in China and approximately 50 basis points of yield headwinds due to deployment shifts.

Net cruise costs, excluding fuel, are expected to be up in the range of 0.9% to 1.4% in constant currency. Taking all this into account, we expect adjusted earnings per share for the quarter to be $3.18 to $3.28.

Turning to our balance sheet. We ended the quarter with $7.2 billion in liquidity and leverage well below 3x, consistent with our goal of solid investment-grade metrics. With the strong expected cash flow generation, we will continue to manage maturities, find opportunities to reduce cost of capital and opportunistically buy back shares.

In closing, we remain committed and focused on our mission to deliver the best vacation experiences responsibly as we work to deliver another year of great results. With that, I will ask our operator to open the call for a question-and-answer session.

