Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 10:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Blake Vanier - Vice President of Investor Relations
Jason Liberty - President, CEO & Chairman of the Board
Naftali Holtz - Chief Financial Officer
Michael Bayley - President & CEO of Royal Caribbean International

Conference Call Participants

Steven Wieczynski - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Elizabeth Dove - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
James Hardiman - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Benjamin Chaiken
Conor Cunningham - Melius Research LLC
Sharon Zackfia - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Vince Ciepiel - Cleveland Research Company LLC
Andrew Didora - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Regina, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Royal Caribbean Group Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Blake Vanier, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Vanier, the floor is yours.

Blake Vanier
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for our third quarter 2025 earnings call. Joining me here in Miami Jason Liberty, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Naftali Holtz, our Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Bayley, President and CEO of the Royal Caribbean brand.

Before we get started, I would like to note that we will be making forward-looking statements during this call. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to our earnings release issued this morning as well as our filings with the SEC for a description of these factors. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as circumstances change. Also, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures which are adjusted as defined, and a reconciliation of all non-GAAP items can be found on our investor website and in our earnings release. Unless we state otherwise, all metrics are on a constant currency-adjusted basis.

Jason will begin the call by providing a strategic overview and update on the business, and Naftali will follow with a recap of our third quarter, the current booking environment and our outlook for the remainder of 2025. We will then open the call for your questions.

With that, I'm pleased to turn the call over to Jason.

Jason Liberty
President, CEO & Chairman of the Board

Thank you, Blake, and good morning, everyone. I am pleased to discuss our third quarter results, updated outlook and the many exciting initiatives fueling our momentum at the Royal Caribbean Group. This has been another great quarter for us. We continue to see strong momentum across our business, powered by accelerated demand, growing loyalty and all-time high guest satisfaction. Our commercial flywheel combining innovative ships distinctive destinations and world-class brands continues to drive sustained growth in guest trust and our ability to deliver the best vacation experiences responsibly.

Before getting to the results for the third quarter, I want to highlight how we are continuing to build a stronger, further leading and more resilient vacation company for the long term. We are focused on building a vacation platform that continues to lead the leisure market through innovative ships, a growing portfolio of exclusive destinations, technology and AI that enhance every step of the guest journey. Together, these high-return investments, strengthen guest loyalty and attract new travelers positioning us to win more share of the fast-growing $2 trillion vacation market.

Earlier today, we announced the Royal Beach Club, Santorini, further expanding our portfolio of exclusive destinations, extending our brands reach beyond the ship and meaningfully enhancing the guest experience. This reflects our vision to redefine how the world vacations. And together with the Royal Beach Club Paradise Island, Perfect Day Mexico and others, we expect to increase our exclusive land-based destination portfolio from 2 to 8 by 2028. These initiatives reflect a thoughtful, sustained investment behind our commercial flywheel and reinforce the strength of our vacation platform.

Cruising and leisure travel continue to outperform the broader travel industry, and we are exceptionally well positioned to capture that momentum. With a powerful pipeline of strategic initiatives, a strong balance sheet and a disciplined approach to growth. We have both the resources and conviction to continue making game-changing investments that delight our customers strengthen our competitive advantage and drive long-term shareholder value. I want to thank the entire Royal Caribbean Group team for their passion, dedication and commitment that enable us to deliver the best vacation experiences responsibly and to drive exceptional financial results.

Turning to our results and outlook. Third quarter results exceeded our expectations, driven primarily by strong close-in demand for our vacation offerings and lower costs. In the third quarter, our capacity increased 3% and we delivered nearly 2.5 million incredible vacations, a 7% increase year-over-year at high guest satisfaction scores. Net yields grew 2.4%, driven by strong demand across all key itineraries. We delivered adjusted earnings per share of $5.75 for the third quarter, which was 11% higher than last year. Naftali will elaborate more on Q3 results in a few minutes.

Moving to our outlook for the remainder of the year. Our capacity in the fourth quarter is up 10% year-over-year, and we expect to grow yields 2.2% to 2.7% on top of a 7% yield increase in the same quarter last year. Our fourth quarter [ year ] outlook has been trivially impacted due to adverse weather and the unplanned extension of the temporary closure of Labadee, one of our exclusive destinations. Despite these marginal headwinds we are expecting our total revenue to be up approximately 13% year-over-year in the fourth quarter. Full year net yield is expected to grow in the range of 3.5% to 4%, that's 25 basis points better than our initial expectations in January, which highlights the continued strong demand for our brands and the amazing vacations they deliver.

Our yield growth this year is on top of several years of double-digit growth resulting in an industry-leading 31% yield growth compared to 2019. This highlights the remarkable transformation of our business and the enduring strength of our leading brands. Full year adjusted earnings per share is now expected to be in the range of $15.58 to $15.63, a 32% year-over-year growth.

We are also on track to deliver nearly $6 billion of operating cash flow this year, a significant step change in our performance. We are a growth company and our proven formula of moderate capacity growth, moderate yield growth and strong cost discipline is driving significant earnings growth, continued margin expansion and robust cash flow generation.

We remain on track to achieve our Perfecta targets by 2027, a 20% compound annual growth rate and adjusted earnings per share and return on invested capital in the high teens. As we've always said, Perfecta is an important milestone on our growth journey, but our ambitions go well beyond. The combination of our game-changing ships on order, our growing exclusive destination portfolio advancing our commercial technology platforms that are fueled by AI and disciplined capital management is setting up the post Perfecta era for another step change in the guest experience and financial performance.

Now I'll provide some more insight into what we're seeing in the demand environment. Consumers continue to prioritize experiences and make room in their budgets for meaningful vacations. Our independent research, combined with millions of daily customer interactions continues to show positive sentiment towards travel and leisure and continued growth in spend. Roughly 3/4 of consumers intend to spend the same or more on vacations over the next 12 months, a level that has remained consistent for several quarters. While the broader consumer environment has normalized from the exceptional strength over the past 2 years, demand for experiences and leisure travel remains intact.

Cruising offers superior value for money versus alternative options driven by the high-quality onboard amenities and services, pricing, inclusive of meals and entertainment and the opportunity to visit a variety of destinations with the convenience of having everything in one place. Earlier this year, we announced our plans to launch a new vacation experience, Celebrity River. The introduction of Celebrity River has received an extraordinary response with all initially available deployment selling out almost immediately. The majority of booked guests are Royal Caribbean Group loyalty members without prior river cruise experiences, highlighting a powerful opportunity to attract new guests to this segment and deepen engagement by creating new vacation occasions with our existing ecosystem.

In fact, the majority of guests shared their primary motivation for booking a Celebrity River vacation was the opportunity to experience a new celebrity product, driven by the trust and affinity they have for the celebrity brand. Guests are also motivated by our new River ship design and features with most of them expecting superior stay rooms, ship amenities and outdoor spaces, all hallmarks of the brand. These early booking patterns are a powerful validation of our strategy to expand the Royal Caribbean Group vacation ecosystem, creating new ways for guests to experience the world with us while deepening the connection to our family of brands. We continue to be encouraged by the demand environment.

Since the last earnings call, bookings are up on both new and like-for-like hardware with particular acceleration for close-in families. Booked load factors for 2026 remained well within historic ranges at record rates, with booked APD growth at the high end of historical ranges. As always, we remain focused on optimizing our pricing and yield growth. Our spectacular new ships continue to generate strong quality demand. Start of the season is exceeding our expectations and Celebrity Xcel is shaping up to be the best performing new ship in the brand's history.

The last 3 years saw unprecedented yield growth, and although that creates a high bar for comparables, our proven formula for success of moderate capacity growth, moderate yield growth and strong cost control is expected to continue to drive top line growth margin expansion and substantial cash flow.

While still very early in the planning process, we anticipate earnings in 2026 to have a $17 handle on it. At the Royal Caribbean Group, we've always believed that clarity and conviction are competitive advantages. Our mission is clear to deliver the best vacations responsibly and our objective is just as ambitious to capture a greater share of the growing $2 trillion global vacation market by turning a vacation of a lifetime into a lifetime of vacations. We don't just talk about that ambition.

We built a robust multiyear plan that shows exactly how we intend to get there through bold high-return investments that strengthen our brands, elevate the guest experience and create long-term value for our shareholders. That includes our expansion into River, the ongoing expansion of our private destination portfolio, the transformational development of Perfect Day in Mexico and, of course, a steady stream of game-changing ships.

This quarter, we announced a long-term agreement with Meyer Turku securing shipbuilding slots through the next decade to continue both companies' tradition of innovation. The agreement confirmed an order for Icon 5 for delivery in 2028, added an option for a seventh icon class ship and positions us for a new game-changing class beyond Icon, making the next stage at Royal Caribbean Group's history as we continue to redefine the future of vacations.

In a world where digital experiences also define customer expectations, we're working to set the standard. We continue to enhance our digital capabilities, to engage customers, remove friction from the guest experience and drive incremental revenue. When we first introduced our app in 2017, the goal was simple. Give guests back the first day of their vacation by eliminating the need to wait in line for onboard reservations. Since then, the app together with our e-commerce engines, has evolved into a cornerstone for our e-commerce strategy, transforming from a utility into a powerful platform that drives revenue, improves operational efficiencies and deepened guest engagement.

In the third quarter, e-commerce visits and conversion rates both increased double digits versus last year, marking a very strong improvement for these channels. In addition, a record share of onboard revenue was booked pre-crews with nearly 90% of those purchases being made through our digital channels. And we continue to redefine loyalty in a way that deepens engagement and provides guests with greater flexibility in how they earn points and status. Building on the success of status match I'm excited to announce Points Choice, the next evolution and how guests earn and apply loyalty points across our family of brands.

Beginning in early 2026, Guests will be able to apply loyalty points to the Royal Caribbean Group brand they prefer, regardless of which brand they are sailing with. This initiative further strengthens the overall value of our loyalty proposition deepening engagement across our portfolio and reinforcing our commitment to putting the guests at the center of our orbit. As our ecosystem expands, it creates a virtuous cycle of demand, value and advocacy one that drives both short-term performance and enduring growth. It's a model that compounds over time, and we're just at the beginning of what it can become. I am incredibly proud of our teams at the Royal Caribbean Group for their dedication and exceptional execution. The opportunity is significant, and we're well positioned to lead the next era of leisure travel.

With that, I will turn it over to Naftali. Naf?

Naftali Holtz
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone. I will start by reviewing third quarter results. Net yields grew 2.4% in constant currency compared to the third quarter of last year, 15 basis points above the midpoint of our guidance. The yield outperformance was driven by the stronger-than-expected close-in demand. Yields grew across all key products and were mainly driven by existing hardware given the timing of new ship deliveries.

During the quarter, a record share of onboard revenue was booked pre-cruise and nearly 90% of those purchases were completed through our digital channels, with the app emerging as the fastest-growing driver of engagement and conversion across those platforms. NCC, excluding fuel, increased 4.3% in constant currency 195 basis points lower than our guidance as we continue to find ways to better deliver the best vacations without compromising the guest experience.

Adjusted gross EBITDA margin was 44.6%, 60 basis points better than last year. And operating cash flow was $1.5 billion. Adjusted earnings per share were $5.75 and 11% higher than last year and 3% higher than the midpoint of our guidance. Earnings out performance was driven by the strong close-in demand and lower costs.

As Jason mentioned, demand for our portfolio brands and industry-leading experiences continues to be very strong. Book load factors remain within historical ranges, at record rates for both 2025 and 2026. Capacity is expected to grow 5.5% for the full year and 10% in the fourth quarter. As expected, capacity growth in the fourth quarter is driven by new ships, Star of The Seas and Celebrity Xcel as well as additional APCDs due to lower dry dock days compared to 2024. The Caribbean represents 57% of our deployment this year and 63% of capacity in the fourth quarter, a region where we hold a strong position and are advancing a series of strategic initiatives to reinforce that. These include industry-leading hardware, shorter and longer attractive itineraries, the upcoming Royal Beach Club Paradise Island and Perfect Day Mexico.

Our Caribbean capacity is up 6% for the year and 10% in the fourth quarter. And even with capacity growth in the region, we see continued yield growth with Caribbean yields in the fourth quarter expected to be up 37% compared to the fourth quarter of 2019. Europe will account for 15% of capacity for the year and 9% in the fourth quarter and in a strong booked position as European season wraps up. Asia Pacific is expected to account for 11% of capacity for the year and 13% for the fourth quarter.

Now let me talk about our updated guidance for 2025. Our proven formula for success, moderate capacity growth, moderate yield growth and strong cost discipline is expected to drive significant earnings growth and higher cash flow generation. We continue to expect net yield growth of 3.5% to 4% for the full year driven by gains in load factor and APD across new and like-for-like hardware. Full year net cruise cost, excluding fuel, expected to decline approximately 0.1%, 40 basis points better than our prior guidance as we remain focused on better execution through leveraging our scale and utilizing technology and AI, all while ensuring strong customer satisfaction and enhanced product offering and vacation experiences.

We anticipate a fuel expense of $1.14 billion for the year, and we are 68% hedged below market rates. Based on current fuel prices, currency exchange rates and interest rates, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $15.58 and $15.63. The $0.12 increase compared to our prior guidance is driven by Q3 outperformance, $0.02 of better Q4 performance, offsetting a $0.05 impact from recent adverse weather events and the unplanned extension of the closure of Labadee.

We also expect 18% growth in adjusted EBITDA to just above $7 billion and 290 basis points growth in adjusted EBITDA margin. This positions us to accelerate our cash flow generation, which allows us to continue investing in our strategic initiatives, maintaining investment-grade balance sheet metrics and expanding capital return to shareholders.

Now let me comment on fourth quarter guidance. In the fourth quarter, we expect capacity will be up 10% year-over-year with net yield growth of 2.2% to 2.7%. As noted on the last earnings call, the timing of Celebrity Xcel's delivery and fewer dry dock days versus last year will unfavorably impact fourth quarter net yield growth by about 90 basis points. Net cruise costs, excluding fuel, I expect a decline between 6.6% and 6.1% during the fourth quarter. Taking all this into account, we expect adjusted earnings per share for the quarter to be $2.74 to $2.79.

Now I will share insights for 2026 which is shaping up to be another very exciting year for us with multiple strategic initiatives that are already well underway. 2026 capacity is expected to be up 6% and as we introduce Legend of the Seas in Europe this summer as well as benefit from a full year of Star and Xcel. Capacity growth is higher in the first and third quarter due to the timing of new ship deliveries and dry docks. In 2026, we expect to have more dry dock days compared to this year partially due to longer dry docks for several planned modernization projects of our existing ships.

Caribbean capacity will represent about 57% of our deployment in 2026. For Caribbean products, we have continued to add shorter itineraries, building on our success in the last several years, enhanced by the opening of the Beach Club in Nassau this year. European itineraries will account for 14% of our capacity. Alaska and West Coast will account for about 10% and Asia Pacific will also account for 10%.

As Jason mentioned, book load factors remain within historical ranges at record rates for 2026. Bookings for 2026 have come in at APDs that are nicely higher than prior year resulting in 2026 booked APD growth at the high end of historical ranges.

Now moving to costs. We remain committed to driving margin expansion supported by strong cost performance even as we advanced major initiatives throughout 2026, including the opening of the Beach Club in Nassau and the build-out of Perfect Day Mexico. Even with these strategic initiatives, the weigh on the NCCX metric, while being significantly accretive to margins, we expect anemic cost growth next year. We continue to focus on improving fuel efficiency and are also hedging our rate exposure. Next year, we expect EU ETS to increase from 70% this year to 100% weighing on our energy efficiency gains.

Moving belong the line. Keep in mind that announced dividends and already completed share repurchases were funded through a combination of strong operating cash flow and incremental borrowings, while maintaining our commitment to keep leverage below 3x. Additionally, we expect the global minimum tax policy updates beginning January 1, 2026, to impact us by an incremental couple of 100 basis points. Taking all this into account, we expect adjusted EPS to have a $17 handle, and we will provide more details during our fourth quarter earnings call.

Turning to our balance sheet. We ended the quarter with $6.8 billion in liquidity and its adjusted leverage that was below 3x on an LTM basis. We're in a very strong financial position, which allows us to fund our growth ambitions while also returning capital to shareholders. During the third quarter, we issued $1.5 billion of investment-grade unsecured notes at [ 5% ] and [ 3.8% ] coupon.

Proceeds were used to opportunistically finance the delivery of Celebrity Xcel at a lower cost than the existing committed ECA financing as well as refinance other debt. This was an opportunistic issuance where we utilize our strong investment-grade balance sheet to access the capital markets to finance a new ship delivery. We intend to continue to evaluate these types of transactions compared to existing committed ECA arrangements to lower cost of capital and gain tenure.

We have very limited maturities left for this year, all related to ship amortization payments that we plan to repay with cash flow. In connection with the debt offering, Fitch upgraded our clear rating to BBB and S&P updated our outlook from stable to positive. We are very pleased with the recognition of the rating agencies of the strength of our balance sheet and our strong financial performance.

In September, we received a cash dividend of $258 million from our joint venture to Cruises, and we expect it to continue to pay a regular cash dividend given its strong financial performance and balance sheet. Also during the quarter, we repurchased approximately 1.3 million shares. And as of September 30, we have $345 million still available under the current authorization. In September, the Board of Directors authorized a 30% increase to the quarterly dividend to $1 per common share. We remain focused on both growing the company through strategic investments as well as returning capital to shareholders. Since July 2024, we returned $1.6 billion of capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, and we intend to utilize our strong financial position to return capital going forward.

In closing, we remain committed and focused on our mission to deliver the investigation experiences responsibly as we wrap up another strong year and look ahead to an exciting 2026.

With that, I will ask our operator to open the call for a question-and-answer session.