The RealReal, Inc. (REAL) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 10, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Caitlin Howe - Senior VP of Finance
Rati Levesque - President, CEO & Director
Ajay Gopal - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Irwin Boruchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Robert Brooks - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division
Ashley Owens - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Marvin Fong - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Matt Koranda - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Anna Glaessgen - B. Riley Securities, Inc., Research Division
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Mark Altschwager - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to the RealReal Q3 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Also as a reminder, this conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Caitlin Howe, Senior Vice President of Finance.

Caitlin Howe
Senior VP of Finance

Thank you, operator. Joining me today to discuss our results for the period ended September 30, 2025, are Chief Executive Officer and President, Rati Levesque; and Chief Financial Officer, Ajay Gopal.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that during today's call, we will make forward-looking statements, which involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested in such statements. You can find more information about these risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Today's presentation will also include certain non-GAAP financial measures, both historical and forward-looking. We have provided reconciliations for historical non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release, which is available on our Investor Relations website.

I would now like to turn the call over to Rati Levesque, Chief Executive Officer of the RealReal.

Rati Levesque
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Caitlin. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the RealReal's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Our strong third quarter results and our full year outlook for GMV of over $2 billion are a testament to our long-term strategy, which has solidified our position as the market leader in luxury resale. We are changing the way people shop, making resale a primary option. 58% of shoppers prefer the secondary market outright and 47% of shoppers now consider resale value before buying something new. Resale is no longer reacting to the fashion industry but driving it. In fact, Vogue use search on the RealReal as a key metric for brand heat in their coverage of the new Creative Director debuts during the fall fashion shows.

Our proprietary data allows us to identify and respond to what buyers want ahead of cycles. Insights from our recent resale report, which analyzes shopping and consignment behaviors across our community of over 40 million members include the following: Fine jewelry has been our fastest-growing category. First-time watch buyers increased 46% with heritage brands leading the way. Customers are turning to us for major life milestones, evidenced by search volume up 247% for wedding dresses. In handbags, shoppers are embracing the lived-in look with searches for fair condition handbags up 32%. And finally, rising acceptance of luxury resale is fueling the adoption of secondhand and holiday gifting.

Turning to Q3 results. We delivered accelerating growth and expanded margins. We set a new record on quarterly GMV with third quarter GMV of $520 million, up 20% versus Q3 of last year. And we delivered adjusted EBITDA of $9.3 million or 5.4% of total revenue, up 380 basis points year-over-year. Let's discuss how our 3 strategic pillars, growth playbook, operational efficiency and obsess over service are fueling these strong results. Diving into the growth playbook, our sales team is unlocking high-quality supply through data and deep consignor relationships. Q3 2025 was the first full quarter with our new compensation plan rolled out to the entire sales team.

The plan's design focuses on value over unit volume. In addition, tools like smart sales are enabling our sales team to unlock supply using AI and data. Productivity increased with supply value per existing luxury manager up 12% year-over-year. Sales team tenure reached an all-time high in Q3 with more than half of the sales team in place for over 2 years. And we added top talent to the ranks of our sales team, laying the foundation for deeper relationships with our sellers. With a total addressable market of over $200 billion of untapped supply in U.S. closets, we see a long runway ahead to drive top line growth. Through sales, real partners, our affiliate program, Real Friends, which is our referral program and the continued expansion of drop ship, we will continue to unlock supply in the coming years.

Turning to marketing. Our efforts are focused on scaling our active consignor base and reinforcing our brand authority. In Q3, we grew new and repeat consignors double digits year-over-year. Trailing 12-month active buyers increased to reach an all-time high of over 1 million. And new buyer LTV is trending higher with average order value and 12-month lifetime value expanding. From a strategic perspective, we're focused on attracting flywheelers or customers who participate in both sides of our marketplace. These flywheelers are 2 to 3x more valuable and transact with us more frequently, accelerating the network effects of our platform.

Looking forward to 2026, we are seeing green shoots in our marketing efforts. Our focus is on pursuing an AI-fueled smart engine to increase our LTV. Our smart prospecting engine aims to enhance targeting of new consignors. Building on our success in social, we are developing a 360-degree presence that combines organic and paid social media to propel brand relevance and digital performance. Early test results are positive. Our retail stores and high-value events work in concert with our marketing and sales team, generating desirable supply and new consignors. In fact, 25% of new consignors come from our stores.

Consignors can interact with our in-store experts, gemologists, virologists and handbag experts who provide specialized valuations that build trust with prospective sellers. We are seeing success with introducing high-value experiential events in our retail stores. Q3 set new records. Newport Beach and Tysons Corner unlocked $2.6 million of supply over just a couple of days. We currently have 18 brick-and-mortar locations, and we plan to add 1 to 3 stores per year, giving us a 10-year runway of growth from new stores.

Moving to our next strategic pillar, driving operational efficiencies. Athena, our proprietary AI-enabled product intake process is delivering efficiency and reducing costs while improving speed and accuracy. As of the end of Q3, the Athena intake process touched 27% of all items, and we are on track for 30% to 40% by year-end. Our future vision is to achieve full listing automation and reduce our processing time from 14 days to our goal of 7 days. In the next phase of Athena, we plan to expand into mid- and high-value items with the opportunity to save millions of dollars while delivering superior service and speed for our sellers.

Turning to our third strategic pillar. Obsessing over service is the secret sauce that reinforces our deep customer loyalty. In Q3, our customer trust metric increased 8 points year-over-year. The customer is evolving rapidly, and we are listening. When I think about our strategic vision, I think of this as an adviser to our customers, a real partnership built on trust, transparency and personalized communication. By helping our customer manage the luxury assets in their closet, this partnership is not just transactional, but is defined by a deep understanding of our customers' financial motivations, fashion sense and individual style. We look to accompany them on their journey through the primary and secondary market.

Last quarter, we introduced the concept of My Closet through Reconsign, which allows our consignors to resell items they've purchased on the RealReal in one click. Looking to the future, My Closet is creating additional customer tools to help catalog closet inventory, enhance access to product insights and provide personalized advising. We see flywheel behavior becoming the norm as our service moves past simply buying and selling, offering ways to optimize and manage the content of the fashion portfolio.

In closing, Q3 was a strong quarter. Our performance across all key metrics and the trends we are seeing in the business gives us confidence to raise our full year guidance. As I reflect in the last year, 4 quarters of progress since I stepped into the CEO role, I am incredibly proud of the RealReal team and the significant transformation we've achieved. We believe we have proven that our growth playbook works. Our model is scalable and the superior service drives our powerful flywheel. I want to thank the entire RealReal team for their unwavering commitment to our customers and for executing with excellence this quarter. I couldn't be more excited about where the RealReal is headed. We've built a strong foundation. We're seeing great momentum, and I believe the best is yet to come.

I will now turn the call over to Ajay for a more detailed review of our financial performance.

Ajay Gopal
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Rati. Good afternoon, everyone. I am pleased to review our financial results for the third quarter, which highlight a period of decisive acceleration and strong execution against our strategic priorities. We delivered robust top line growth with GMV increasing 20% and revenue up 17% year-over-year. Our approach to unlocking supply and driving efficiency is paying off with adjusted EBITDA of $9.3 million or 5.4% of total revenue, expanding 380 basis points and free cash flow of $14 million for the quarter.

Now turning to our detailed third quarter results, beginning with the top line. Q3 GMV of $520 million increased 20% compared to last year. Growth was driven roughly evenly by unit volume and higher average selling prices. Q3 revenue of $174 million increased 17% with consignment revenue up 15% year-over-year. Direct revenue increased 47% compared to Q3 of 2024 and represented 13% of total revenue in the quarter. Average order value of $584 increased 12% versus last year. Q3 take rate of 37.9% declined 70 basis points year-over-year due to a mix into higher-value items and categories.

Our active buyer base accelerated sequentially. On a trailing 12-month basis, it increased 7% year-over-year to more than 1 million active buyers, marking a new all-time high. Continuing with our third quarter results. Third quarter gross profit of $129 million increased 16% year-over-year. Gross margin was 74.3% in Q3, which was consistent with Q2 of this year and down 60 basis points compared to the prior year period due to a higher mix of direct revenue this year. In the third quarter, consignment gross margin was 89.3%, an improvement of 70 basis points year-over-year and direct gross margin was 20.9%, an increase of 370 basis points versus prior year.

Third quarter operating expenses of $136 million leveraged 620 basis points year-over-year as a percent of revenue. Excluding stock-based compensation, operating expenses leveraged by 470 basis points, driven by our focus on operating efficiencies, continued gains from AI and automation and leverage on fixed costs. Third quarter adjusted EBITDA of $9.3 million or 5.4% of total revenue increased $7 million versus prior year. Adjusted EBITDA margins increased 380 basis points year-over-year. We ended the quarter with $123 million in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash. Our operating cash flow in the third quarter was $19 million, a $10 million improvement year-over-year.

Free cash flow was $14 million in the third quarter, a $12 million improvement year-over-year, demonstrating our business model's favorable cash dynamics as we grow. As a reminder, we reduced our debt by $6 million through the strategic debt exchange transaction we announced in August. Since the beginning of 2024, we have reduced our total indebtedness by over $86 million while extending our debt maturity profile, reinforcing our commitment to delevering and strengthening our balance sheet. Capital expenditures on property, plant and equipment for the third quarter were $6 million, and we continue to anticipate full year CapEx, PP&E, to remain within 2% to 3% of total revenue.

Turning to our P&L outlook for the fourth quarter and full year. We sustained healthy supply trends throughout the third quarter and into the fourth and are raising our outlook for 2025. Fourth quarter GMV is expected in the range of $585 million to $595 million, which represents 17% growth compared to the prior year period at the midpoint of our guidance range. Fourth quarter revenue is expected in the range of $188 million to $191 million. This reflects 16% growth compared to last year at the midpoint of our guidance range. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA is expected to be between $17.5 million and $18.5 million, approximately 9.5% of total revenue and over 275 basis points of margin expansion year-over-year at the midpoint of our range.

Moving to our outlook for the full year. We now expect full year GMV in the range of $2.10 billion to $2.11 billion, up 15% at the midpoint of our guidance range. We expect revenue in the range of $687 million to $690 million, up 15% at the midpoint of our guidance. And we now expect adjusted EBITDA in the range of $37.7 million to $38.7 million with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 5.5%, reflecting 400 basis points of improvement versus 2024.

In closing, we believe our third quarter performance provides compelling evidence that our growth playbook is working to unlock high-quality supply. And our progress on AI initiatives and automation is driving strong unit economics. The momentum we are building is clear. As the premier authority in luxury resale, we believe we are poised for sustained profitable growth and consistent cash flow generation. Thank you to the entire RealReal team for your dedication and for driving strong third quarter results.

With that, I will now turn the call back over to the operator for Q&A. Operator?