Rollins, Inc. (ROL) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 30, 2025 8:30 AM EDT

Company Participants

Lyndsey Burton
Jerry Gahlhoff - Principal Executive Officer, President, CEO & Director
Kenneth Krause - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Timothy Mulrooney - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Ronan Kennedy
Yehuda Silverman - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Keen Fai Tong - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Tomohiko Sano - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Peter Keith - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Stephanie Benjamin Moore - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Madison Callinan

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Rollins, Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Lyndsey Burton. Thank you. You may begin.

Lyndsey Burton

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. In addition to the earnings release that we issued yesterday, the company has also prepared a supporting slide presentation. The earnings release and presentation are available on our website at rollins.com.

We have included certain non-GAAP financial measures as part of our discussion this morning. The non-GAAP reconciliations are available in the appendix of today's presentation as well as in our earnings release.

The company's earnings release discusses the business outlook and contains certain forward-looking statements. These particular forward-looking statements and all other statements that have been made on this call, excluding historical facts, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from any statement we make today.

Please refer to yesterday's press release and the company's SEC filings, including the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024.

On the line with me today and speaking are Jerry Gahlhoff, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ken Krause, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Management will make some opening remarks, and then we'll open the line for your questions.

Jerry, would you like to begin?

Jerry Gahlhoff
Principal Executive Officer, President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Lyndsey. Good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to report Rollins delivered exceptional third quarter results. Overall, we continue to see solid growth across all major service lines with total revenue growth of 12% and organic growth of 7.2%. Growth from acquisitions was bolstered by the performance of Saela, which continues to exceed our expectations. The integration of Saela has progressed very smoothly, thanks to the efforts of our collective teams.

As you know, we believe in the combination of Orkin, and our strong group of regional brands is a competitive differentiator for Rollins, giving us multiple bites at the apple with potential customers while also providing some balance and diversification with respect to customer acquisition. The addition of Saela further strengthens these competitive advantages for us.

Our investments in strategic M&A opportunities are also complemented by ongoing investments to drive organic growth. We've made a number of investments on the commercial side of the business and remain encouraged by the momentum we are seeing as a result.

Over the last year, we have strategically added resources to support our dedicated commercial division within Orkin. These resources are paying off as Orkin commercial delivered double-digit recurring growth in the third quarter.

As a reminder, while commercial takes a little more upfront investment to drive growth, it's also the highest retention business amongst our service lines, making the lifetime value of these customer relationships very attractive.

Beyond growth, our dedication to operational efficiency and continuous improvement is an important part of our strategy and culture. Ken will discuss in more detail, but we are pleased with our margin performance in the quarter, which was supported by some favorability related to insurance and claims as well as leverage in other key cost areas.

Encouragingly, we continue to see tremendous improvements in teammate retention as a result of our ongoing initiatives, which benefits us from a people cost perspective. We also leveraged sales and marketing expenses despite ongoing investments we continue to make in support of long-term growth objectives.

We're also proud of the significant investments we're making in our people to support the future growth of our company and establish consistent leadership behaviors across the enterprise. Our talent and development team has designed a program called the [ Collab ], a 3.5-day experience for all people managers.

Our teammates meet in cross-branded groups for best practice sharing and networking. Servant leadership is the foundation of these sessions, which are designed to help leaders enhance skills for personal development, team development and business growth. After the initial session, leaders participate in additional guided practice, peer coaching and ongoing learning.

Our efforts here are intended to create a marketplace of cross-brand, cross-functional talent where teammates can seamlessly transfer between brands, divisions, our home office and field operations. This will further enhance career opportunities for our teammates and create a robust pipeline of future leaders that will not only sustain our growth, but also help us reach our full potential.

The [ Collab ] initiative began this summer and will continue well into next year as we put over 2,000 additional people leaders through this development experience.

In closing, we're excited about where our business stands today. As we look to close out 2025, we remain well positioned for continued growth, both organically and through acquisitions, and are focused on continuous improvement initiatives to develop our people and enhance profitability throughout our business. I want to thank each of our teammates for their ongoing commitment to their customers.

I'll now turn the call over to Ken. Ken?

Kenneth Krause
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Jerry, and good morning, everyone. The third quarter reflects continued strong execution by our team. The team delivered exceptional financial performance throughout.

A few highlights to start. Growth was robust again this quarter. We delivered revenue growth of 12% year-over-year with organic growth of 7.2% versus last year across our service offerings. Adjusted EBITDA margin improved 120 basis points to 25.2%, driven by leverage across the P&L with incremental margins of approximately 35%.

Our GAAP earnings were up over 21% to $0.34 per share. And excluding certain purchase accounting expenses, primarily associated with larger acquisitions like Fox from 2023 and Saela of this year; earnings were $0.35 per share. And finally, we delivered over 30% improvement in operating cash flow, while free cash flow was up 31% versus the same period a year ago. This is enabling another strong increase in our dividend here in the fourth quarter.

Diving further into the quarter, we saw double-digit growth across each of our service offerings. In the third quarter, residential revenues increased 11.2%, commercial pest control rose 11.8%, and termite and ancillary increased by 15.2%.

Organic growth was also healthy across the portfolio with growth of 5.2% in residential, 8.3% in commercial and 10.8% in termite and ancillary. Organic growth remained healthy in the quarter across our service offerings with growth rates that were in line or ahead of the first half. We finished with a strong September and are heading into Q4 with a healthy backlog.

Turning to profitability, our gross margins were healthy at 54.4%, a 40 basis point increase versus last year. We saw improvements in materials and supplies, insurance and claims and fleet expenses, excluding vehicle gains, while people costs were neutral. People costs were negatively impacted by increased reserves for medical-related claims compared to a year ago.

Quarterly SG&A costs as a percentage of revenue improved by 60 basis points versus last year. We saw leverage across most key cost categories, including sales and marketing, administrative costs and insurance and claims, while fleet was neutral.

Third quarter GAAP operating income was $225 million, up 17.3% year-over-year. Adjusted operating income was $232.1 million, up 18.4% versus prior year. Third quarter EBITDA was $257.6 million, up 17.1% and representing a 25.1% margin. Our adjusted EBITDA was $258.3 million, up just under 18% and representing a 25.2% margin.

Incremental margins were 35.4% for the quarter, driven by our direct cost leverage, as previously mentioned. We benefited from a net $5 million of favorable adjustments related to [ auto- ] and medical-related claims. Excluding these adjustments, incremental margins still approximated 31%.

As we previously discussed, we expected to see an improvement in the second half of the year. As a result of the improved performance in Q3, year-to-date incremental margins are now approaching 25%.

The effective tax rate was 24.8% in the quarter, below our rate a year ago of 26.1%. Our tax planning efforts are paying off and are helping reduce our effective rate. We expect our effective rate -- effective tax rate to continue to benefit from this longer term.

Quarterly GAAP net income was $163.5 million or $0.34 per share, increasing from $0.28 per share in the same period a year ago. For the third quarter, we had non-GAAP pretax adjustments primarily associated with the Fox and Saela acquisition-related items, totaling approximately $7 million of pretax expense in the quarter.

Accounting for these expenses, adjusted net income for the quarter was $168.5 million or $0.35 per share, increasing over 20% from the same period a year ago.

Turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. Operating cash flow increased 30% to $191 million. We generated $183 million of free cash flow, increasing approximately 31%. Cash flow conversion, the percent of income that was converted into operating cash flow was strong at 112% for the quarter. And for the 9 months -- first 9 months of the year, we converted 120% of income into operating cash flow.

We made acquisitions totaling $35 million, and we paid $80 million in dividends in the quarter. Dividend payments increased 10% from the prior year and are at a healthy and sustainable rate at approximately 44% of free cash flow in Q3 and 49% of free cash flow year-to-date.

We also just announced another 11% increase to our quarterly cash dividend earlier this week. Including this recent increase, we have raised our regular dividend by more than 80% since the beginning of 2022. Year-to-date, we have made acquisitions of almost $300 million. We paid dividends of approximately $250 million.

We've invested in CapEx of almost $25 million and have only borrowed approximately $100 million. Cash flow performance has been exceptional this year and is enabling a very attractive and balanced approach to capital allocation.

As part of our modernization efforts, we accessed the public debt markets earlier this year and established a $1 billion commercial paper program. Despite higher debt balances associated with the Saela acquisition, our interest costs have declined by approximately 7% on a year-to-date basis. Our leverage ratio stands at 0.8x.

We are positioned well and have access to cost-efficient capital to grow our business. This enables us to continue to execute our balanced approach to capital allocation, reinvest in the business, grow our dividend as earnings and cash flow compound and pursue share repurchases opportunistically.

As Jerry mentioned, we closed the Saela acquisition earlier in April and are excited about the strategic growth opportunities this acquisition provides us. Saela has performed exceptionally well since the acquisition, growing double digits year-to-date versus last year, while margins were accretive to our margin profile and slightly accretive to EPS on a GAAP basis.

As we look to the remainder of 2025, we remain encouraged by the strength of our markets, our opportunities for growth and the execution of our teams. We are seeing healthy levels of growth. Margins are expanding, our tax rate is improving, while earnings and cash flow continues to compound at very healthy rates.

We are positioned extremely well to deliver on our financial objectives and continue to expect organic growth in the 7% to 8% range for the year with growth from M&A of 3% to 4%. We remain focused on driving double-digit growth in earnings, improving our incremental margin profile while investing in growth opportunities. And we anticipate that cash flow will continue to convert at a rate that is above 100% for 2025.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Jerry.

Jerry Gahlhoff
Principal Executive Officer, President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Ken. We're happy to take any questions at this time.