Rentokil Initial plc (RTO) Q3 2025 Sales Call October 23, 2025 4:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Andrew Ransom - CEO & Executive Director
Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson - CFO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Annelies Vermeulen - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
William Kirkness - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Suhasini Varanasi - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Oliver Davies - Rothschild & Co Redburn, Research Division
James Rosenthal - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Nicole Manion - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Allen Wells - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Carl Raynsford - Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Rentokil Q3 Trading Update Call. My name is Rita, and I will be coordinating your call today. [Operator Instructions].

I will now hand you over to your host, Andy Ransom, Chief Executive Officer at Rentokil, to begin. So, please go ahead, Andy.

Andrew Ransom
CEO & Executive Director

Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. And before we begin, as always, can I just draw your attention to the usual cautionary statement contained in our trading update this morning as it also applies to this call. I'm going to start off with some brief opening remarks, and then Paul and I will be pleased to take any questions.

We're encouraged by our performance in the third quarter as the overall positive trends that we described at our interim results have continued into the second half of the year and leave us on track to deliver our 2025 results in line with market expectations.

For the 3 months to the 30th of September, group revenue was $1.8 billion, representing year-on-year growth of 4.6%. Organic revenue grew 3.4%, with an improvement in North America to 3.4%, and organic growth across our international businesses of 3.3%.

Looking at our performance in North America in more detail. Pest Control Services organic growth was 1.8%, which compares favorably to the 0.3% seen in the second quarter. North America Business Services organic revenue growth was particularly strong in the third quarter, up 11.9%.

Back in March, we discussed how we were evolving our North America strategy to drive enhanced lead generation and a lower cost per lead. This was a comprehensive overhaul of how we were growing the business, informed by our learnings in 2024. And this revised strategy included raising the bar on improving colleague retention and driving up customer retention, enhancing our digital marketing to realize the benefits from better organic lead generation and higher quality, lower cost paid for leads, and evolved satellite branch strategy to improve customer proximity and local search visibility, and moving our sales operating model back under the branch managers to drive more accountability and visibility of results.

At the half year stage, this plan showed early signs of yielding results with the improvements that we saw in lead flow in June. And it's pleasing to see that this improved performance has continued. Following the lead flow growth in June, we delivered year-on-year growth in lead flow throughout the third quarter as we focused on improving organic leads and on better targeted lower cost paid leads.

We also now reported 11 consecutive quarters of improving colleague retention. And importantly, our customer retention rate has nudged up again from the half year stage to 80.9%, where investment in the customer sales team, in particular, is having an impact. The rollout of satellite branches is on track with 139 in operation, delivering improved lead generation through a stronger local presence together with higher volume, higher rated customer reviews, and we continue to target opening 150 satellite branches this year.

Finally, the door-to-door pilot continued in 25 sales territories, and we're encouraged by the results, and we're planning an expansion of this pilot in 2026.

Standing back, you'll remember that we talked about our core challenge and core opportunity to sustainably improve our North American organic revenue growth, being shifting the contract portfolio into consistent and healthy growth through customer retention, through pricing and through winning new customer contracts. So we are pleased to see that improvement in customer retention. We also continue to deliver on pricing discipline, achieving price increases a little above the rate of inflation. And combined with the higher volume of new leads, we did see an improvement in contract portfolio net gain performance during the quarter.

For a business driving value through a contract portfolio, it's this quarterly sequential improvement which will, over time, translate into stronger top line growth. The focus now is about taking the learnings from these actions and planning for 2026 as we hit Q4, which is a seasonally quieter quarter. We've also noted for Q4 that 2024 benefited from one-off emergency mosquito control work driven by an exceptional hurricane season last year. And this is not currently expected to repeat, impacting Q4 organic growth by about 60 basis points, albeit in dollar terms, it's actually very small in the context of the U.S. business as a whole.

Turning now to our International businesses, which obviously we now report excluding France Workwear with the sale completed at the end of the third quarter. International revenue grew by 4.6% with organic growth of 3.3%. Europe sustained strong growth from the first half into the third quarter, particularly in the Southern European markets of Spain, Portugal and Greece. The U.K. also saw growth improve with continued strong performance in our core Pest Control and Plants businesses, and an improved performance in the lower-growth Property Services business.

Growth in the Pacific region, though, remains below the average for International. Good growth in core Pest Control and Ambius was offset by adverse weather impacts on our rural and track spray businesses. In terms of category performance, Pest Control organic revenue growth for the group was 3.4%, driven by good momentum in North America. Hygiene & Wellbeing grew by 3% organically, an improvement from the 0.9% in the first half as market conditions improved in the Pacific and in the U.K., in Sub-Saharan Africa regions, which returned to growth in the quarter.

On M&A, we completed 3 deals in the quarter, taking the total number of deals completed this year to 21, and representing annualized revenue in the year before acquisition of around $39 million. We were pleased to complete the France Workwear sale with the receipt of $397 million of initial cash proceeds. As a result of ongoing cash generation and the disposal proceeds, net debt at the end of the quarter was $3.9 billion.

Looking forward, our outlook for the remainder of the year remains unchanged. Current trading is in line with our expectations. And we expect to deliver financial results for the full year, in line with market expectations. Beyond 2025, our cost efficiency initiatives remain on track to deliver the $100 million cost reduction by the end of 2026, and to achieve an operating margin in North America above 20% post 2026.

In summary, the third quarter demonstrates a continuation of the positive momentum we began to see in the first half of the year. The International business is performing solidly and they are encouraging, but still early signs that the revised strategy we're implementing to improve sales execution and to evolve our digital marketing capabilities are beginning to have a positive impact in North America.

So with that, let me hand back to the operator to manage the Q&A. Thank you.