SentinelOne, Inc. (S) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 4, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Saad Nazir
Tomer Weingarten - Co-Founder, Chairman, President & CEO
Barbara Larson - CFO & Principal Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
John DiFucci - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Brian Essex - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Nasr Islam - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Meta Marshall - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Joseph Gallo - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Fatima Boolani - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Eric Heath - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Jonathan Ho - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Shaul Eyal - TD Cowen, Research Division
Michael Cikos - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Zachary Schneider - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Adam Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Joshua Tilton - Wolfe Research, LLC
Patrick Edwin Colville - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to the SentinelOne Q3 FY 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Also, as a reminder, this conference is being recorded today. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. I will now turn the call over to Saad Nazir, Head of Investor Relations.

Saad Nazir

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to SentinelOne's earnings call for the third quarter of fiscal year 2026, which ended October 31, 2025. With us today are Tomer Weingarten, CEO; and Barbara Larson, CFO. Our press release and an earnings presentation were issued earlier today and are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website. This call and accompanying slides are being broadcast live via webcast, and a replay will be available on our website after the call.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that during today's call, we will be making forward-looking statements about financial performance and future events, including our guidance for the fiscal fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2026 as well as long-term financial targets. We caution you that such statements reflect our best judgment based on factors currently known to us and that our actual results or events could differ materially. Please refer to the documents we file from time to time with the SEC, in particular, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our annual reports on Form 10-K.

These documents contain and identify important risk factors and other information that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements made during this call are being made as of today. If this call is replayed or reviewed after today, the information presented during the call may not contain current or accurate information. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly or to update the reasons why actual results may differ materially from those anticipated even if new information becomes available in the future.

During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures, unless otherwise noted. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results other than with respect to our non-GAAP financial outlook is provided in today's press release and in our earnings presentation. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for our GAAP results. Our financial outlook excludes stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions, amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related compensation costs, restructuring charges, gains on strategic investments and income tax provision, which cannot be determined at this time and are therefore not reconciled in today's press release.

With that, let me turn the call over to Tomer Weingarten, CEO of SentinelOne.

Tomer Weingarten
Co-Founder, Chairman, President & CEO

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining our fiscal third quarter earnings call. Q3 was another strong quarter for SentinelOne. We exceeded our top and bottom line expectations, demonstrating durable growth and continued operating leverage. Our ARR grew 23% year-over-year, driven by continued momentum in new business generation and expansion with existing customers. Our third quarter net new ARR also reflects positive growth, both year-over-year and sequentially.

We're seeing broad-based momentum with new customers, expansion with existing accounts and adoption of our emerging platform solutions. Our operating margin reached a new high in Q3, underscoring continued operating leverage and increasing efficiencies across the business. We've put the company on a path towards sustainable profitability, both on a quarterly and annual basis, an incredible milestone, demonstrating our commitment to profitability.

Overall, our Q3 results highlight steady execution, continued business momentum and strong demand for our differentiated AI-driven Singularity platform. We're expanding our market share and gaining traction among the most important domains in cybersecurity. And we're well positioned to lead in both AI for Security and Security for AI, helping organizations advance their digital transformations securely and intelligently. Let's dive deeper into our customer success and platform momentum.

We're winning new logos and expanding our footprint across enterprises of all sizes and industries globally. As AI reshapes how businesses operate, companies are turning to SentinelOne for a unique platform experience that combines AI, data and security. The best security is not complex. It simplifies operations and provides a great user experience. Alongside industry-leading efficacy, Singularity's intuitive platform, modern interface and ease of use are key differentiators that are driving strong platform adoption.

Our emerging platform solutions continue to scale and achieve outsized growth. In Q3, our non-Endpoint solutions represented approximately half of quarterly bookings, underscoring the growth, diversity and expanding value of our platform. In addition, our ARR per customer reached a new company record in the quarter. This was primarily driven by strong contributions from our data, Purple AI and Cloud Security Solutions.

Let me share more details, starting with Purple AI. Purple AI growth continues to exceed our expectations and achieved a record attach rate that surpassed 40% of licenses sold in Q3. Purple's growth is being driven by strong adoption from both new customers and existing customers. It's becoming a cornerstone of modern security operations, enabling analysts to automate investigations, accelerate detection and strengthen response. Reaching this level of adoption so rapidly is a rare feat.

At OneCon 2025, we unveiled the next generation of Purple's Agentic AI capabilities, amplifying its ability to triage and remediate threats autonomously in real time. It is a true step towards autonomous security operations where humans and AI work together seamlessly. Q3 was also a standout quarter for data solutions. Bookings growth accelerated to triple digits year-over-year, and we're seeing growing demand for our AI SIEM solution.

We're delivering an industry-leading AI-native security data analytics offering that delivers deeper visibility, real-time detection, faster investigations and autonomous response, all with more efficient economics and lower cost for customers. And through the acquisition of Observo AI, we now own the data pipeline that powers modern security operations from data telemetry to AI-driven analytics and response. I'll share more on this later.

Q3 also marked our strongest quarter for Cloud Security bookings growth in the last 12 months, signifying rising demand for our comprehensive CWS and CNAPP offerings. As cloud environments grow and AI workloads multiply, so does the need for security. We're delivering comprehensive cloud-native protection that scales with our customers' infrastructure. It simplifies operations and fortifies defenses to a unified AI-powered security platform.

In Endpoint, we continue to outgrow the market by delivering industry-leading efficacy, performance and user experience. Customers need a platform that brings simplicity, intelligence and best-in-class security in a single unified offering. Our growth leadership and innovation in the endpoint market are the foundation for further expanding the Singularity platform scope. For instance, our Endpoint Advantage is enabling us to seamlessly enter the data loss protection space, delivering integrated DLP directly from the agent without requiring additional dependencies.

On SentinelOne Flex, we're seeing strong momentum as customers adopt the Singularity platform dynamically. Though early, Flex is already helping us secure larger multi-solution deals and longer-term customer commitments. Enterprises need security that combines simplicity, intelligence and dependable protection. Singularity provides that balance, enabling faster response, streamlined operations and stronger defense across the enterprise. We're seeing strong traction with large global enterprises driven by improved win rates and deeper expansion across existing accounts, which reflects our technology advantage and platform value. And our results clearly underscores our strong competitive position and growing product differentiation.

Let's look at a few customer wins from the quarter that exemplify this. For Data Solutions, a global hospitality brand adopted AI SIEM to replace its legacy Splunk deployment. The customer consolidated on our AI native platform for its superior performance and user experience. The competitive replacement demonstrates the growing traction of our AI SIEM. More and more enterprises are selecting SentinelOne to modernize security operations and efficiency.

For Cloud Security, a SentinelOne Flex deal, a global consumer products company signed a multimillion dollar deal with a 5-year contract to secure tens of thousands of cloud assets with Singularity. The customer chose SentinelOne for its unified AI-driven cloud security. And by leveraging Flex, the enterprise can dynamically adapt our platform solutions as their needs evolve. It shows both the value of Singularity Cloud and the flexibility of the Flex model.

In federal, a major U.S. federal agency significantly broadened its deployment across the Singularity platform by adding broader platform solutions, including Purple AI, Cloud Security and Threat Services. This multiyear 8-figure commitment reflects deep trust built over time and our traction in the public sector. Organizations in highly complex and sensitive environments are choosing SentinelOne to simplify operations and drive efficiency at scale.

Lastly, one of the biggest deals in the quarter was with a Fortune 500 brand securing hundreds of thousands of endpoints and expanding into new solutions. This customer, like many others, consolidated multiple point solutions onto our Singularity platform for better security outcomes and experience. It's a great example of how large enterprises are simplifying their security operations and standardizing on Singularity for unified AI native protection at scale.

These wins highlight our growing traction with large enterprises and continued upmarket success. They also reinforce the industry's recognition reflected in the 2025 IDC MarketScape, which named SentinelOne a leader in worldwide XDR software. On the partner ecosystem front, we continue to expand and deepen our engagements. Our partners are a force multiplier, helping expand our reach and scale. We're seeing strong traction driven by increasing platform adoption across AI SIEM, Purple AI, CNAPP and broader platform solutions. We're strategically scaling adoption in the mid-market while driving operational leverage for partners.

As an example, we expanded the scope of partnerships with NinjaOne and Pax8 in the third quarter. Among hyperscalers, we deepened collaboration with AWS and Google Cloud, integrating our technology and platform across their cloud marketplaces and AI services. Together, these alliances are enhancing market presence and positioning SentinelOne as a trusted partner for enterprises worldwide.

Now let's dive into the innovation engine that's fueling our growth. We're helping organizations master 2 disciplines at once: AI for Security and Security for AI, so they can innovate with confidence. We're putting defenders in control of the AI era, giving them the tools to build, secure and benefit from AI in a simple, fast and secure way. To extend our innovation lead and further differentiate our AI advantage, we acquired Observo AI, the category-defining data streaming platform for AI-native telemetry pipeline management. Let me highlight a few important points on this.

Security is, at its heart, a data problem and legacy rules-based data pipeline platforms simply weren't built for today's ever-growing attack surface and data-intensive security operations. Observo delivers an AI-native real-time telemetry pipeline that ingests, enriches, summarizes and routes data across the enterprise before it ever reaches a SIEM or a security data lake. Importantly, Observo gives us ownership of the data pipeline that powers modern security operations. This lets us manage the entire flow of security data from ingestion and retention to analytics and response, all within a single unified platform.

Combined with the Singularity platform, we can deliver significant platform value by enabling fast and seamless data onboarding into our AI SIEM or any other destination. Security teams struggle with costs, complexity and delays created by increasing data volumes, forcing compromises that can reduce visibility, limit protection and slow response. Observo empowers customers to drastically reduce costs, improve detection and act faster. This acquisition accelerates our innovation road map and amplifies our current data offerings, where we saw triple-digit bookings growth in Q3.

In addition, for Prompt Security, the response from customers, partners and the broader market has been incredible. Prompt addresses an urgent and growing need. Nearly every organization is now adopting AI tools and every CISO we engage with is focused on doing it safely. As enterprises accelerate their use of generative AI and agentic tools, they're looking for real-time visibility, governance and control. Prompt's technology is seamless to deploy and frictionless to scale. We're seeing healthy early traction in the field. The sales motion for Prompt aligns naturally with our existing go-to-market framework, both as a cross-sell opportunity among existing customers and as an entry point for new customers looking to secure AI usage and technologies.

Together with our AI for security offerings, we are well positioned to secure the full life cycle of AI adoption. We're helping enterprises embrace AI safely and confidently, proving that innovation and security can move forward together. At OneCon, we introduced several major innovations that advance our leadership in AI native security. First, with GenAI security powered by Prompt, we're helping enterprises adopt and secure generative AI safely and at scale. Second, we unveiled our new AI-ready data pipeline, powered by Observo AI, which we believe will transform how organizations collect, process and act on security data in real time. Third, we expanded Purple AI's agentic capabilities, giving defenders greater autonomy and precision in detection and response.

Purple AI is completely integrated across the entire Singularity platform and delivers a unique out-of-the-box applied AI experience. Purple's newer capabilities include natural language threat hunting, agentic investigations and automated response workflows, driving significant efficiency gains and faster threat remediation for security teams. And we introduced the new Wayfinder Threat Detection and Response Suite of Managed Services designed to give customers the ultimate human plus AI defense against modern cyber risks.

Wayfinder embodies this vision by bringing together SentinelOne's Agentic AI and Google's Threat Intelligence with the most elite threat hunters, analysts and incident responders in the industry. For customers, this means faster detection, smarter response and stronger defenses available 24 hours a day. This is how cybersecurity evolves, humans and AI working side by side, learning from each other and responding in real time. At SentinelOne, we're helping enterprises build the foundation for modern, intelligent and resilient digital infrastructure.

Importantly, this vision is resonating with customers and partners. The response and excitement at OneCon showed that our approach is aligned with the market needs. The spirit of our innovation announcements at OneCon was well captured by CRN, whose article title stated that SentinelOne partners cheer AI moves for leading the charge on autonomous security. We're laser-focused on delivering true value and tangible outcomes through both AI for Security and Security for AI.

As I reflect upon our overall performance, we're continuing to deliver top-tier growth and margin improvement while driving innovations that are shaping the future of cybersecurity. Our technology advantage is clear. We're delivering world-class innovations and leading the industry in AI-native cybersecurity. At the same time, we're making tangible progress in building a stronger sales and marketing engine. The last 2 quarters reflect steady improvement in execution and meaningful progress along that journey. As we look ahead, we remain focused on durable and profitable growth. This quarter, we made tremendous progress towards that goal by putting the company on the path to sustained profitability. I'm incredibly proud of what our teams have accomplished. We're building a stronger, more efficient and more innovative company and leading the way in AI security for the modern enterprise.

Before I turn the call over, I want to address the news of a leadership transition. Barbara Larson will be stepping down as CFO to pursue an opportunity outside the cybersecurity industry. I want to thank Barbara for her leadership and partnership. She has been instrumental in supporting our path to surpassing $1 billion in ARR and in guiding our transition to achieve sustained profitability. We are grateful for Barbara's contributions and wish her the very best in the next chapter of her career.

We have initiated a search for our next CFO. Barbara will remain with us through mid-January to ensure a seamless transition. Upon Barbara's departure, our Chief Growth Officer, Barry Padgett, will serve as Interim CFO. Barry is a seasoned executive with more than 25 years of experience in operational leadership at companies like SAP and Stripe. He knows our business intimately and is already a great partner for our finance organization. Barry's leadership will ensure a steady hand as we move forward. Importantly, we have an excellent finance leadership team supporting Barry and ensuring continuity. Our Board and executive leadership are confident in a seamless transition and our profitable growth strategy remains unchanged.

In closing, I want to take a moment to acknowledge the contributions of all Sentinels for another solid quarter. Their relentless focus, dedication and execution drives our success. And thanks to all of our customers, partners and shareholders for their continued support. Our mission to be a force for good remains unwavering. Thank you again for joining us today.

With that, I'll hand it over to our CFO, Barbara Larson.

Barbara Larson
CFO & Principal Financial Officer

Thank you, Tomer, and thanks, everyone, for joining us today. Let's review the details of our Q3 financial performance and our guidance for Q4 and fiscal year '26. As a reminder, all comparisons are year-over-year and financial measures discussed here are non-GAAP, unless otherwise noted.

In Q3, we outperformed our guidance on both top and bottom line metrics. Our total ARR grew 23%, and we added net new ARR of $54 million in the quarter, which exceeded our expectations. This outperformance was driven by broad-based momentum across both new customer wins and existing customer platform expansion. We're gaining market share and mind share across our platform solutions, notably AI, data and cloud. These results reflect steady execution and healthy demand across the business.

In Q3, revenue grew 23% year-over-year to $259 million. International markets grew 34% and represented 40% of total revenue, reflecting balanced growth and an expanding global footprint. Customers with ARR of $100,000 or more grew 20% to 1,572. Our ARR per customer reached a new company record, highlighting our broader platform adoption and increase in average deal sizes. This reflects the value our customers realize from our platform and our continued success in driving multiproduct expansion. Our net retention rate remained strong and well into expansionary territory, driven by customer adoption of our broader platform solutions, including AI, data, cloud and others.

Turning to margins. We maintained an industry-leading gross margin of 79%, highlighting healthy platform unit economics. We also achieved operating profitability of 7% in the quarter, with operating margin improving by nearly 1,200 basis points year-over-year. We also benefited from the timing of expenses as some spending shifted to Q4. We achieved sustained quarterly operating profitability, a significant milestone toward long-term profitable growth, and we remain on track to deliver our first full year of operating profit this fiscal year.

We also achieved our highest quarterly net income margin, which increased to 10% in Q3, significantly higher from breakeven in the prior year quarter. I'm excited to share that Q3 also marks an inflection point for sustainable quarterly free cash flow margin. We achieved free cash flow margin of 6% in Q3 and remain firmly on track to deliver our second consecutive full year of positive free cash flow margin, another key milestone that underscores our path toward profitable growth.

Complementing this strong performance, our Remaining Performance Obligations grew 35% in Q3, reflecting growth acceleration on both a sequential and a year-over-year basis. Our total RPO reached $1.3 billion in Q3, a clear validation of the trust we've established with our customers and our commitment to innovation.

From a capital allocation standpoint, our strong balance sheet and improving margin profile provide the flexibility to allocate capital strategically, fueling growth initiatives while driving long-term value creation. In line with this strategy, we extended our technology leadership with the acquisition of Observo AI, a leader among real-time data pipeline companies. This is a strategic deal, benefiting SentinelOne's competitive position while enhancing value for our customers and partners.

Observo's technology is highly complementary to our data solutions and the Singularity platform. The best security starts with clear visibility and Observo enhances that by enabling data to flow instantly into our Singularity data lake. This seamless integration delivers unified AI-driven security and moves us one step closer to achieving truly autonomous security operations.

The purchase price for Observo AI was approximately $225 million. We expect the top line financial impact of the transaction to be minimal in fiscal year '26 with immaterial ARR and revenue contribution and an estimated 60 basis point impact to our full year operating margin. We finalized and closed both the Observo AI and Prompt Security transactions in Q3.

Turning to our guidance for Q4 and fiscal year '26. For fiscal year '26, we expect revenue to be approximately $1.001 billion, representing 22% year-over-year growth and increasing the midpoint of our prior guidance range by $1 million. For Q4, we expect revenue of approximately $271 million, which represents 20% year-over-year growth. This outlook is supported by a healthy pipeline, continued customer and partner momentum and growing contributions from our emerging products. Cybersecurity remains a top priority across industries, and this is reflected in the strong demand we're seeing for the Singularity platform. As always, we continue to monitor the macro environment, which can influence deal timing and sales cycles.

Turning to our outlook for margins. For the full year, we expect gross margin to be approximately 78.5%. And for Q4, we expect gross margin to be approximately 77.5%. Our guidance for gross margin also incorporates strategic investments in cloud infrastructure and capacity expansion. This is a reflection of our growing global scale and platform diversification.

For the full year, we now expect operating margin to slightly exceed 3%. This indicates an overall operating margin improvement of more than 600 basis points compared to fiscal year '25. And for Q4, we expect our operating margin to be approximately 5%, representing a year-over-year improvement of about 400 basis points. Our full year operating margin outlook absorbs a combined 130 basis points of impact from the Prompt and Observo acquisitions and an additional 120 basis points from FX-related headwinds we've seen this year. Adjusting for these macro and strategic factors, our guidance implies meaningful outperformance compared to the initial operating margin guidance provided in March.

Importantly, we are reaffirming our commitment to delivering positive free cash flow for the full year, which we expect to be a few points higher than operating margin. Taking a step back, our momentum, technology leadership and competitive position remains strong, and we are delivering top-tier growth at scale with continued operating leverage. Our investment approach strikes a thoughtful balance between maximizing long-term growth opportunities and maintaining a strong, responsible and profitable financial profile.

In summary, we're executing on our strategy with focus and discipline, delivering strong growth, improving profitability and continuing to invest in the priorities that will shape our long-term success. With a solid financial foundation, a differentiated AI-powered platform and a large and growing market opportunity, we're confident in our ability to drive sustainable, profitable growth and create long-term value for our shareholders.

Before we turn to Q&A, I would like to briefly address my upcoming transition. It's been a privilege to serve as CFO of SentinelOne during such a pivotal time. I'm incredibly proud of what we've accomplished together, scaling the business to over $1 billion in ARR and achieving sustainable profitability. I remain a strong believer in SentinelOne's bright future. With its differentiated AI-powered platform and a massive market opportunity ahead, I believe SentinelOne is uniquely positioned for profitable growth and long-term success.

I want to thank Tomer for his trust and partnership and the entire SentinelOne team for their hard work. Over the coming weeks, my full focus will be on ensuring a seamless transition. I will be working closely with Barry and our seasoned finance leadership team to ensure a smooth handoff. I leave with full confidence in the company's financial foundation and its future success.

Thank you all for joining us today. We'll now take your questions. Operator, please open up the line.