SAP SE (SAP) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 1:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Alexandra Kasper Steiger - Global Head of Investor Relations
Christian Klein - CEO & Member of Executive Board
Dominik Asam - CFO & Member of Executive Board

Conference Call Participants

Adam Wood - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Charles Brennan - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Frederic Boulan - BofA Securities, Research Division
Ben Castillo-Bernaus - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Mohammed Moawalla - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Mark Moerdler - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Toby Ogg - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome, and thank you for joining the SAP Q4 and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Alexandra Kasper Steiger
Global Head of Investor Relations

Good morning, everyone, and welcome. Thank you for joining us. With me today are CEO, Christian Klein; and CFO, Dominik Asam. On this call, we will discuss SAP's fourth quarter and full year results for 2025. You can find the deck supplementing this call as well as our quarterly statement on our Investor Relations website. During this call, we will make forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are risk -- that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially.

Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties may be found in our filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to the Risk Factors section of our annual report on Form 20-F for 2024. Unless otherwise stated, all numbers on this call are non-IFRS and growth rates and percentage point changes are non-IFRS, year-on-year on constant currencies. The non-IFRS financial measures we provide should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Christian.

Christian Klein
CEO & Member of Executive Board

Yes. Thank you, Alexandra, and a warm welcome to everyone joining this call. In countless conversations with business leaders in Q4 and at the World Economic Forum, it became clear. Customers are facing geopolitical uncertainty, macroeconomic volatility, and they would like to leverage AI to make their companies more resilient and more productive, driving growth as well as cost efficiencies.

At the same time, it is very encouraging that more and more customers and partners are turning to SAP to gain real business value from AI. Why? Because they realize that they don't gain value by developing a number of custom AI agents or by applying commodity large language models on top of transactional business applications.

The formula for gaining real value from AI as an enterprise is becoming clear. It's important to reimagine first how AI will change existing business models and mission-critical business processes and to boost process automation and efficiency, AI agents must be embedded in business processes and trained with context-rich business data that is not available to large language model providers.

This is a unique combination only SAP can deliver because our business suite provides us with access to the world's largest volume of business data and we directly infused our Agentic AI layer in the most mission-critical business processes of a company. This momentum of SAP Business AI is also clearly visible in our Q4 numbers.

More than 2/3 of our Q4 cloud order entry includes business AI, increasing by more than 20 percentage points compared with Q3. Looking at the 50 largest deals in Q4, 90% of them included AI or SAP Business Data Cloud. We also saw the number of customers using our AI CoPilot tool growing ninefold over the course of the year.

Now let's have a broader look at our financial performance. Q4 was the best bookings quarter of 2025 ahead of our expectations. This resulted in a total cloud backlog of EUR 77 billion, up 30%. This also clearly shows the underlying momentum of our business as well as our potential in the future.

In addition, we achieved our 2025 financial outlook for cloud revenue as well as cloud and software revenue. A great performance considering the macroeconomic challenges we faced in half year 1. The ongoing transformation of SAP's operating module, combined with applying AI across the company, allowed us to even beat our operating profit and free cash flow outlook in 2025. Some of you might remember, back in 2020, we started our disruptive cloud transformation with very ambitious targets for 2025. And today, I'm happy to say we have delivered what we promised and even outperformed this ambition.

But more importantly, the great technological achievements of our cloud transformation are now giving SAP the why to win with business AI. It is the time to thank our customers, partners and more than 100,000 colleagues worldwide for the trust in our strategy and for making the transformation happen, for sure, the biggest in SAP's history.

Let me directly turn to Q4 number where I expect some questions. Our current cloud backlog. In Q4, it grew 25%. Back in Q3, we expect it to reach 26%. Before I explain the deviation, let me outline that in Q4, new bookings came in clearly ahead of plan. And we saw strong customer retention, low churn and stable discount rates.

This resulted in a 30% increase to EUR 77 billion total cloud backlog, an impressive growth on an already large base. Despite the strong Q4 performance, 2 factors led to deviation. First, we closed a higher share of significantly large deals in Q4 compared to our forecast in October, which is great for the total cloud backlog, but large customers often don't move their mission-critical ERP in the first year. These deals always have more back-end loaded ramps and as a consequence, a limited impact on current cloud backlog in the first 12 months.

The good news, the average contract duration remains stable, so we expect higher revenue contributions from these deals over the next few years. Second, we closed a higher share of government deals in Q4 that included a termination for convenience by law. Such deals are not reflected in the CCB. So while we even overperformed on bookings and are very satisfied with the outcome of Q4, the combination of both effects resulted in a 1 percentage point difference to what we expected in October.

And consequently, a slight shift of cloud revenue from 2026 to 2027 and beyond. Now the great bookings performance included some impressive wins in Q4. Adidas, L'Oréal and H&M Group are embarking on the RISE with SAP journey, Deloitte, Pirelli, RTX, Nokia, Jabil and the U.S. Navy chose RISE too. While Toyota and Daimler Truck are even expanding their ongoing RISE journey. Lockheed Martin went live on RISE with one of their business areas, a further step in our multiyear partnership.

It will continue in 2026 with our human capital management solutions as they keep transforming their workforce. Across all sectors, companies selected SAP growth to transform their business. KPMG, Snowflake and Müller, a large German retailer, just to name a few.

On business AI, new customers included names such as Tech Mahindra, Mondelez, Kirin and Sun Chemical. In health care, Fresenius selected SAP Business AI to sustainably improve patient care. We also saw the Bosch Group select SAP Business AI in Q4 to help boost innovation across all 4 of its business sectors.

This momentum is translating into business AI adoption. Our customers are already achieving impressive outcomes. Just one example. Siemens, consultants can reinvest 25% of their weekly working time into higher-value activities, thanks to tool for consultants. These impressive wins are on just a list of logos. They are the result of our focused strategy execution throughout the year.

Looking back at 2025, we made huge focus. Let me name a few highlights. First, our cloud transformation is in full swing. Customers, representing 40% of our support revenue base have now initiated a move to cloud ERP using device and go with SAP offerings. On the go-to-market side, we established a partner-first approach for the mid-market. And our focus on public cloud pays off with order entry growing more than 5x faster than private cloud in 2025.

Now almost half of our order entry. We have also expanded our software and cloud capabilities and continue to see high demand for our offerings in the public sector. In Q4, for example, we closed a new OneGov agreement with the U.S. General World Services Administration and with the HMRC in the U.K.

Finally, our innovations in SAP Business Data Cloud and Business AI are seeing strong traction. SAP Business Data Cloud secured around EUR 2 billion in total contract value in less than a year since its launch. And as I mentioned earlier, more than 2/3 of our Q4 cloud order entry included AI.

Now let's turn to our growth ambition for the year 2026 and beyond. Over the last years, we have built a solid foundation for future growth, thanks to the successful execution of our transformation. Building on this momentum, we are confident that we will further expand our market share for cloud revenue and accelerate total revenue growth through 2027. This confidence is based on several key growth drivers. First, coming back to our total cloud backlog of EUR 77 billion. This grew by 30%. It outperformed our current cloud backlog growth by 5 percentage points.

In short, we have a significant amount of our future cloud revenue in the books. And given the ramps of the large deals over the next 4 years, we are increasingly building a strong foundation for total revenue acceleration through 2027.

Second, we will continue converting our installed base to the cloud with a multiplier of 2 to 3x, considering our support revenue base of EUR 10.5 billion, this represents a multibillion euro cloud revenue opportunity for us. Third, the vast majority of our cloud customers are expanding their SAP footprint across the SAP business suite.

They now clearly see the value of best of suite over best of breed, especially in the age of AI. So they leverage the best of suite approach not only to run their business processes end to end, but they also seek a harmonized data platform that provides the foundation for high-value business AI.

As a result, in Q4 alone, almost 2/3 of our deals exceeding EUR 1 million involved 4 or more lines of business, a remarkable increase of 25 percentage points, but we see this not only in increased up and cross-selling numbers, but also in market share gains.

Overall, we outperformed the cloud market by 10 percentage points in 2025. Fourth, it is just the world's largest enterprises that rely on SAP. With our business suite in the public cloud, SAP's mid-market business is growing too. We expand in the mid-market, and we are winning new customers through our partner-first strategy and the significant expansion of our reseller ecosystem.

This channel is already growing more than 1.5x faster than our direct business. And we will substantially increase the contribution from our ecosystem. Finally, let me conclude with the growth driver that has the highest potential. And this, of course, to create a strategic relevance by far, our Business AI and Business Data Cloud.

The traction from 2025 is just the beginning. Many customers have seen that an LLM alone is not enough. They need modules, business data and context to build high-value AI use cases and derive business value. So let me explain to you how we drive growth with SAP's unique combination of apps, data and AI. First, Joule, we are reinventing the user experience and the way people work across all our apps with our CoPilot tool. Unlike other digital coworkers, Joule doesn't just access the world's leading LLMs, it also has broad access to business data.

No matter the task, joule is setting new standards for user experience, simplicity, productivity and we'll just redefine the future of work. Second, embedded and extensible AI agents. We are embedding AI agents across the main business processes of every company. Doing so, we are helping our customers to realize efficiency through automation, make better decisions and gain agility across their value chain with connected agents.

To extent where differentiation is needed, we provide a powerful agent builder with capabilities that are unique to SAP such as the access to a semantical BDC data product and the ability to benchmark and infuse agents directly into the business process layer within our apps.

Our pro-code offering serves the needs of our developers while our business users can use the agent builder in a local mode to easily build, deploy and manage AI agents. Third, we have always differentiated ourselves by our deep industry and business process knowledge and coded high-value industry-specific applications. Now we are reimagining these strategic industry capabilities with AI.

Together with some industry-leading customers, we are already redefining mission-critical parts of an industry value chain by developing the next-generation AI solutions like redefining patient care and health care, delivering higher predictability and supply chain resilience in manufacturing. And to run smarter trade promotions and personalize the shopping experience in retail.

Some of these industry AI use cases were already crucial to the success of our Q4 deals. Fourth, BDC addresses one of the biggest all blocks for AI adoption that our customers face today, data silos. BDC brings together SAP and non-SAP data, providing our customers with the harmonized data they need to enable their agentic AI vision. In 2026, we will heavily accelerate the development of data products to enrich the semantic layer for all of our customers.

And fifth, accelerated ERP migration. In customer spend 10x more on their ERP migration compared to what they spend on their ERP software. With our integrated AI-powered migration tool chain in the RISE journey, we are shrinking this ratio by cutting the migration cost and making it faster and easier for customers to realize value from their transformation. Net-net, in all of the focus areas, SAP has a clear right to win.

Together, they'll secure SAP's position as the leading business AI company. Finally, to be credible in the AI market, we have all modeled the use of business AI and kicked off an extensive AI transformation program internally. We are using AI across all functions to unlock significant long-term operating profit potential. In R&D, we see huge efficiency gains as the role of a developer is shifting from traditional code writing toward designing, guiding and validating AI-generated solutions.

In sales, Business AI will help us to better quote, price, identify opportunities. In HR, Business AI will help us better plan and transform our workforce. Every SAP leader across every function is infusing AI into their business and drive the reskilling of our workforce, because AI isn't just about technology, it first needs to be enabled by our people. Altogether, our goal is to achieve a run rate of around EUR 2 billion in real cost efficiencies by the end of 2028, thanks to the internal usage of AI.

This equates to efficiency gains of 15% to 20% of addressable costs, which also helps us to reinvest into our AI road map. So to sum it all up, we closed 2025 with strong momentum. Our strategy is validated by our customers. And we have all the ingredients to win in the age of AI. The groundwork is done, and 2026 will be the year AI delivers enterprise scale return on investment.

And with that, I'll hand over to Dominik.

Dominik Asam
CFO & Member of Executive Board

Thank you very much, Christian, and thank you all for joining us this morning. I'd also like to wish you all a happy and healthy year 2026. SAP's strong close to the year reflects steady execution against our priorities. As we navigated a rapidly shifting macroeconomic backdrop at the beginning of the year, remain focused on operational discipline and driving value for our customers in times of unprecedented technological change.

Our ability to drive top line growth while consistently exceeding our profitability and free cash flow expectations reflects the consistent execution against the outlook we provided at the beginning of the year. While the challenges persisted, we took deliberate steps to reinforce our foundation and align the business for durable, sustainable performance.

As a result, we closed the year in a position of strength and the progress we've made has set the stage for continued advancement towards our financial and strategic priorities in the years ahead. Verizon growth with SAP both remain core pillars of our transformation strategy, serving as a go-to solution for large-scale enterprises and high-growth mid-sized companies undergoing complex end-to-end modernization efforts.

And as highlighted by Christian, AI and the Business Data Cloud are beginning to show real commercial impact emerging as a meaningful contributor to customer decision and deal activity. This combined momentum continues to materialize in large cloud transactions with deal volumes greater than EUR 5 million, contributing a record 71% to our total cloud order entry in the fourth quarter.

These results validate our role as a partner of choice, trusted by world-class organizations navigating high stakes transformation at speed and scale. Now let me provide more details around our financial highlights. Current cloud backlog reached EUR 21 million, up 25%. This is a more pronounced slowdown than what we had anticipated and more than the slight deceleration we guided to at the beginning of last year. Echoing Christian's remarks, this outcome reflects a deal mix weighted towards larger transformations, many of which include longer ramp periods or flexible structuring, reducing their near-term CCB contribution.

Also, further mounting geopolitical tensions have led to many customers putting even more emphasis on exploring sovereign SaaS options. While SAP is extremely well positioned in this segment, and we have a significant pipeline of opportunities due to the trust Germany and SAP continue to enjoy on a global scale. It takes longer to negotiate these more complex transactions and also longer to deploy and ramp as compared with plain vanilla offerings of U.S. infrastructure as a service vendors.

This is particularly true for any state-owned and related entities as well as defense, but starts to also affect commercial customers in certain particularly sensitive geographies and industries. Total cloud backlog for the year grew 30% to a record EUR 77 billion, again significantly exceeding our current cloud backlog and cloud revenue growth. Cloud revenue actually grew 26% year-on-year in 2025, again, primarily driven by the strong performance of cloud ERP suite. Cloud ERP suite had another notable year, reinforcing its position as a key engine of growth with an increase of 32% in 2025.

And I want to make the remark, this is as a constant currency number in U.S. number -- U.S. dollar, the number would be 2 percentage points higher if you want to compare to competition. This performance is especially meaningful given the expansion of its revenue base over time, highlighting its ability to scale in a sustainable growth rate, now accounting for 86% of total cloud revenue for the year.

Software licenses revenue decreased by 27%. Finally, total revenue for the full year approached EUR 37 billion, up 11%. Now let's take a brief look at our regional performance. For the full year, Brazil, France, Germany, India, Italy, South Korean and Spain all had outstanding performances in cloud revenue, but China, Japan, Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom as well as the U.S. were particularly strong.

Now down in the income statement. Our non-IFRS cloud gross margin for the full year continued its upward trend from last year and expanded by 1.6 percentage points to 75%, driving cloud gross profit up by 29%. In the fourth quarter, IFRS operating profit increased 27% to EUR 2.6 billion. Non-IFRS operating profit was up 21%. Both IFRS and non-IFRS operating profit growth were negatively impacted by approximately EUR 100 million related to a 2025 workforce transformation.

In addition, IFRS operating profit growth was negatively impacted by USD 200 million related to Teradata litigation expenses. For the full year, IFRS operating profit increased to EUR 9.8 billion and non-IFRS operating profit to EUR 10.4 billion. The IFRS effective tax rate for the full year was 28.5%. The non-IFRS tax rate was 30.4%, which is below the outlook for approximately 32%, mainly resulting from an increasing ability to offset foreign withholding taxes in Germany.

Looking forward, we expect the midterm non-IFRS effective tax rate to be in the range of 28% to 30%, which is slightly lower than half -- lower -- which is in the lower half of the previously communicated range of 28% to 32%. Free cash flow for the full year was rounded down EUR 8.2 billion, i.e., at the very high end of our revised outlook range of EUR 8 billion to EUR 8.2 billion.

This increase was mainly attributable to higher profitability and to lower payments for restructuring and share-based compensation. This result reflects our continued emphasis on disciplined cash management and operating efficiency building on the progress we've made in strengthening quality and consistency of our cash flow over time.

We are very proud of the progress we've made this year and the business momentum that contributed to our strong net cash position. As a result, SAP has decided to further step up its capital returns with a new 2-year share repurchase program of up to EUR 10 billion scheduled to start in February.

This decision reflects our confidence in the sustainable strength of the business and our continued commitment to returning capital to shareholders in a disciplined and balanced way. Finally, non-IFRS basic earnings per share in fiscal year 2025 increased by 36% to EUR 6.15. Now let's move on to our outlook.

As you've probably seen in the quarterly statement published earlier today, we have provided this year's outlook by now, we expect CCB growth to moderate slightly over the course of 2026, while some deceleration is anticipated, it is expected to be meaningfully less than what we saw in 2025 in terms of deceleration.

At the same time, we see a path for total revenue growth to accelerate supported by the foundation we've built and the continued strength of our business. And our operating profit outlook reflects a sustained operating discipline, driving our expense to revenue growth ratio towards the lower end of our long-term operating leverage objective of 80% to 90%, giving us the opportunity to continue to drive non-IFRS operating profit growth significantly above revenue growth.

In addition, in 2026, we expect to generate a record free cash flow of approximately EUR 10 billion, supported by continued efficiency improvements and operational rigor. Overall, our guidance reflects a balanced view of the opportunity ahead grounded in disciplined execution and an ongoing commitment to long-term value creation.

With 2025 now behind us, we move into 2026 focused on consistency, clarity and execution. The groundwork we have laid across both transformation initiatives and commercial performance puts us in a strong position to deliver against the guidance we outlined today. While geopolitical and trade tensions have taken a certain toll on our top line performance in 2025, the growing need for sovereignty and resilience also offers unique opportunities for those vendors that can offer technologies and tools to reduce dependencies from dominant offerings.

As the largest non-U.S. software, SaaS and PaaS vendor, there's no company better positioned than SAP to satisfy this rapidly growing demand. Our strategy to design a stack, which is not locked into any particular SaaS vendor is particularly valuable in that respect. And our decision to keep developing our powerful SAP converged cloud infrastructure, the sovereign infrastructure, thereby preserving capability to run infrastructure service efficiently in our own data centers, provides us with another now even more valuable option to deploy our SaaS and PaaS offers.

Despite an unpredictable macro and geopolitical environment, our strategy remains clear and our execution is already driving meaningful progress across the business. Customers are choosing us as their North Star to lead mission-critical change, and we remain committed to helping them move faster, scale smarter, become more sovereign more resilient and modernized with confidence. Thank you, and we will now be happy to take your questions.

Alexandra Kasper Steiger
Global Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, Dominik. With that, we'll now take your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Operator, please open the line.

