Starbucks Corporation (SBUX) Q1 2026 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Catherine Park - Vice President of Investor Relations
Brian Niccol - Chairman & CEO
Catherine Smith - Executive VP, CFO & Principal Accounting Officer

Conference Call Participants

David Tarantino - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Brian Harbour - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
David Palmer - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Lauren Silberman - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
John Ivankoe - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Sara Senatore - BofA Securities, Research Division
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Gregory Francfort - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Peter Saleh - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Zachary Fadem - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Danilo Gargiulo - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Christopher O'Cull - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Darryl, and I will be your conference operator today. I would like to welcome everyone to Starbucks' First Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

I will now turn the call over to Catherine Park, Vice President of Investor Relations. Ms. Park, you may now begin your conference.

Catherine Park
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Starbucks' First Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 results. Today's discussion will be led by Brian Niccol, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Cathy Smith, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from these statements. Any such statements should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements in our earnings release and risk factors discussed in our filings with the SEC, including our latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Starbucks assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements or information.

GAAP results in the first quarter fiscal year 2026 include restructuring and impairments and transaction costs that are excluded from our non-GAAP results. Revenue, operating income, operating margin, EPS and EPS growth metrics on today's call represent non-GAAP measures and are measured in constant currency. G&A and effective tax rate metrics also represent non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the earnings release and our website at investor.starbucks.com to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP measures and supplemental financial information.

This conference call is being webcast, and an archive of the webcast will be available on our website through Friday, March 13, 2026. Also, for your calendar planning purposes, please note that our second quarter fiscal year 2026 earnings conference call has been tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, April 28, 2026.

I'll now turn the call over to Brian.

Brian Niccol
Chairman & CEO

Good morning, and thank you for joining. I look forward to seeing many of you tomorrow for Investor Day, where we will lay out our future vision for the company, our path to sustained growth and profitability and how we plan to deliver the best of Starbucks for our customers, partners and shareholders.

Today, though, I want to focus on the continued progress we've made on our Back to Starbucks plan and the momentum we've built across the business through Q1 fiscal 2026. I'm most excited that our turnaround plan is coming to life in the way we envision. First, turn around the top line and then earnings growth will follow. And I am delighted to say we are now achieving top line growth driven by transactions, and we have clear plans on how we expect to turn top line growth into margin and earnings growth.

We started the fiscal year strong with a focus on disciplined execution at scale. As a result, in Q1, global revenue grew by 5% to $9.9 billion and global comparable store sales accelerated to 4% growth. We delivered 128 net new coffeehouses globally, and we delivered operating margins of 10.1% and EPS of $0.56.

Our North America revenue grew 3% in the first quarter to $7.3 billion. Across North America as a whole and our U.S. business, company-operated sales comps were both 4%, led by 3 percentage points of comp transaction growth. And across our international business, sales comps grew by a healthy 5%, led by strong performance across our company-operated markets in China, Japan and the U.K.

In the U.S., where much of our turnaround work has been focused, company-operated transaction comps grew year-over-year for the first time in 8 quarters, and we grew transactions across all dayparts in the quarter. Starbucks Rewards 90-day active members reached a record 35.5 million customers during the quarter. Rewards transactions grew year-over-year for the first time in 8 quarters and non-rewards transactions grew even faster. In fact, this was the first quarter we grew both rewards and non-rewards transactions since Q2 of fiscal 2022. That's nearly 4 years ago. It is clear from our top line results that our Back to Starbucks plan is working and our turnaround is taking hold.

As we return to growth, we can also see more clearly where we will improve further. Over the past several months, we have surfaced legacy models and processes in our business that we are now fixing. For example, transaction growth has shown us continued opportunities to strengthen our supply chain and reevaluate menu offerings to ensure product availability while reducing future waste. We will keep moving with speed to identify and implement practical changes like these that we know are good for our customers and for our business.

We're also continuing to refine our labor model because we see some opportunities to fine-tune it based on store format and performance. There's also opportunity to better enable efficiencies with technology solutions in our coffeehouses and across our support centers around the world. We're pleased with our progress, and we believe we remain ahead of schedule, and we're confident on our path forward. But we also recognize that we're still in our turnaround. And as we expected, the strategic investments we're making to fix our operating foundations will take time to flow through to sustainable earnings growth.

A key piece of our path forward is technology, and I'm excited to share that Anand Varadarajan recently joined Starbucks as our new Chief Technology Officer. Anand joins us following a successful 19-year career at Amazon, where he most recently served as President of Worldwide Grocery Technology. I am confident his leadership and knowledge will result in step change improvements across all our technology platforms.

I want to use the remainder of my time today to share with you what we've done to drive top line growth through Q1 and why I'm confident we're on the right track to deliver improved growth in fiscal 2026 and beyond. First, our Green Apron Service standard continued to improve our coffeehouse experience, creating value for our customers and underscoring our growth potential in North America. Through the quarter, we leveraged bigger rosters, new customer service standards, continued low hourly partner turnover and our SmartQ algorithm to deliver more consistent, timely and personal service.

As a result, across our U.S. company-operated coffeehouses, positive customer comments grew in the quarter. All day and peak throughput steadily increased. We addressed throughput challenges during peak with average cafe and drive-thru service times both below our 4-minute targets, even with meaningful transaction growth. And we brought order to mobile orders, ensuring they remained accurate and on time.

To instill more ownership of the coffeehouse experience and the results they deliver, we rolled out new expectations for coffeehouse leaders to stay enroll at least 3 years. That's because we know leadership continuity strongly correlates to a better culture and improved coffeehouse performance.

We also launched the Grow program, a simplified reporting system to evaluate, rank and improve coffeehouse performance. We're measuring 5 key metrics that closely tie to comp growth and are within coffeehouse leaders control. While it's only been a few months, leaders across our North America operations are already using the new report to help them better run their coffeehouses and take ownership of their action plans to improve performance.

To better support our Green Apron partners, we fully scaled Green Dot Assist across our North American coffeehouses this past November. This new AI-powered knowledge search tool provides a real-time resource to look at beverage builds, troubleshoot operational issues and adjust deployment plans. It also provides a strong foundation to test and learn, then develop and scale thoughtful AI solutions that reduce friction for partners and help them focus on craft and connection with our customers.

Second, our overhauled approach to marketing and menu innovation is putting Starbucks back in the cultural conversation and back into a leadership position. Our holiday offering featured an exciting menu and new merchandise, including our Barista Mug, which created real energy and buzz that drove more customers into our coffeehouses. Our partners also showed up with enthusiasm and a desire to connect with our customers, delivering a record revenue holiday launch week for our U.S. company-operated business and driving sustained performance through the quarter.

We also saw brand performance improve. Brand affinity in the U.S. remained strong during the quarter with continued improvements in visit consideration and Starbucks ranking as a customer's first choice. Connection scores improved with more customers saying our partners make an effort to get to know them. Convenience scores improved significantly as customers responded to our Green Apron Service standard and improved in-stock levels. And more customers said Starbucks offers great tasting food and healthy menu choices.

Value perception scores also held strong in Q1. And when paired with average ticket growth, it clearly shows that we're delivering greater value through menu innovation and customer connection, not through discounts. These are all clear signs that we are creating a more valuable brand for more customers.

Going forward, we will continue to build on Starbucks' proven seasonal strengths with engaging marketing, on-trend menu innovation and seamless digital experiences that work together to create moments our partners can deliver with excellence, and our customers want to be a part of and share.

Third, we continue to scale our coffeehouse uplift program, bringing more warmth and great seats back into our coffeehouses. To date, we've completed approximately 200 uplifts, primarily in Southern California and New York City, and we're on track to complete more than 1,000 by the end of fiscal 2026. We believe these investments in our cafes and the customer experience will continue to have a positive impact on our business as we reclaim the third place.

Within our International segment, we grew revenue by 10% to $2.1 billion, and we grew comps in 9 of our 10 largest international markets, underscoring the strength and resilience of the Starbucks brand globally. China was a standout. Comps accelerated to 7%, marking our third consecutive quarter of comp sales growth led by transactions. This performance reflects the progress we are making to strengthen our competitive position as the leading premium coffee brand in the market.

Looking ahead, we are sharpening our focus for our long-term future in the region. During the quarter, we identified Boyu as our partner to maximize Starbucks potential in China. This partnership will help us expand into more cities, deliver exceptional coffee experiences, create new career opportunities for partners and strengthen Starbucks' position as a global brand for long-term growth.

We continue to expand our footprint with discipline and pace. In the first quarter, we opened 79 net new international coffeehouses, reflecting 130 net new licensed coffeehouses and 51 net closures in our company-operated business. India crossed 500 coffeehouses, and we announced expansion into 6 new cities in our Latin American and Caribbean markets, along with plans to surpass 1,000 coffeehouses in Mexico this year. International remains a powerful growth engine for amplifying the Starbucks brand, and we are confident in our ability to deliver consistent profitable growth in this business longer term.

So to conclude, we've continued to build momentum across our business through Q1, and we are clear on our long-term vision. We will be the world's greatest customer service company. We will offer the best job in retail. We will be the community coffeehouse. Our brand will be visible, relevant and loved everywhere, and we will accelerate growth around the world. And finally, we will deliver on our commitments to create shareholder value.

As a result of our disciplined work over the past 18 months, we are now delivering the top line results we set out to achieve, and we're creating the room we need to invest thoughtfully in our future. As I said last quarter, we have a plan, we have been working the plan, and the plan is working. Our work is not done, and we are clearly in the early stages of our turnaround, and we have clear plans to maintain our top line performance while improving the foundations of our business. I don't expect the path forward to be linear, but we will continue to test, learn and refine our approach to deliver the best of Starbucks and drive durable, profitable long-term growth.

Before I turn it over to Cathy, I want to thank our partners across our coffeehouses and support centers around the world for their continued focus and relentless effort to execute with excellence. Our Back to Starbucks plan is the strategic currency of our turnaround, and their work is the foundation of our progress and our performance. Together, we've grown comps and transactions. Brand affinity and customer connection is strong. Our innovation pipeline is stacked with breakthrough menu items and new digital experiences and the shine is back on our brand, both in the U.S. and around the world.

With that, I'll turn it over to Cathy to walk us through our Q1 financial results and to share our fiscal 2026 guidance.

Catherine Smith
Executive VP, CFO & Principal Accounting Officer

Thank you, Brian, and thank you all for joining us this morning. We made meaningful progress in the first quarter as we executed our growth priorities to build long-term strength in the business. I'm incredibly proud of how our partners showed up for our customers throughout the holiday season, and I want to thank them for their dedication and hard work.

I'll now share our Q1 results and then provide additional insight into how we're setting up for the months ahead. Our Q1 consolidated revenue was $9.9 billion, up 5% to the prior year, reflecting 1% net new company-operated store growth and a 4% increase in global comparable store sales, driven by strong performance across both our North America and International segments.

Our North America segment revenue grew 3% in the first quarter to $7.3 billion, with comparable store sales growing 4%. In the U.S. Our comparable store sales growth also accelerated to 4%, with transactions up 3%, fueled by the first full quarter of Green Apron Service embedded in the daily operations of our company-operated coffeehouses. Average ticket grew 1%, driven by a growing mix of espresso and tea-based beverages alongside the continued rise in the popularity of our cold foam platform.

Our U.S. comp performance is a compelling proof point for our Green Apron Service standard, menu innovation and marketing efforts. This combination drove broader reach and deeper engagement with customers as evidenced by our 90-day active Starbucks Rewards member base growing 3% year-over-year to an all-time high of 35.5 million members. And as Brian mentioned, our Starbucks Rewards member transactions grew year-over-year in Q1 for the first time in 8 quarters and non-Starbucks Rewards customer transactions grew even faster.

Our U.S. licensed store portfolio revenue declined in Q1, primarily due to ongoing trends within the grocery and retail channels. Steady growth across other areas of our portfolio, including business and offices, college and universities and health care continued to serve as partial offsets. Overall, our North America portfolio increased by 49 net new coffeehouses to reach 18,360 at the end of the quarter.

Moving on to International. The segment reported $2.1 billion of net revenue in the first quarter, growing 10% year-over-year. International's comp growth of 5% was led by transactions as customers celebrated the holiday season with Starbucks around the world. Most of our largest international markets, including our company-operated businesses in China, Japan and the U.K. contributed to our comp sales performance in the quarter.

China continues to showcase strong momentum. Starbucks China's comparable store sales grew 7% in Q1 with a 5% improvement in comparable transactions powered by product innovation, effective marketing and continued growth in delivery.

In our Channel Development segment, our Q1 net revenues grew 19% year-over-year due to higher revenue from the Global Coffee Alliance as well as our ready-to-drink business. In the first quarter, we launched our new multi-serve refreshers concentrate in our North America market, which was met with incredible demand. We will continue to work with our partners to innovate to maintain our leadership position in the North America at-home and ready-to-drink coffee categories.

Shifting to margin. Our Q1 consolidated operating margin was 10.1%, contracting 180 basis points from the prior year. This was led by North America's operating margins, which declined by approximately 420 basis points year-over-year, primarily as our investments in support of Back to Starbucks continue to annualize. Approximately 1/3 of North America's margin contraction was also driven by our product and distribution cost inflation, led by tariffs and elevated coffee pricing. As our fiscal year progresses, we are expecting these pressures will begin to abate.

Consolidated G&A in the quarter decreased 7% as our work to streamline the business last year begins to actualize this fiscal year. Our Q1 effective tax rate of 26.8% was higher year-over-year, primarily driven by lapping some discrete tax items from last year. All in, our Q1 EPS was $0.56, down 19% from the prior year.

I look forward to providing our longer-term targets at our Investor Day tomorrow. But today, I'll focus on fiscal 2026. But before I do, let's spend a few moments on China.

In November, we announced an agreement to form a joint venture with Boyu Capital to more strategically capture the significant white space we continue to see in China. Under the agreement, Boyu will acquire up to a 60% interest in Starbucks retail operations in China, and Starbucks will retain a 40% interest in the joint venture. We will also continue to own and license the Starbucks brand and intellectual property to the JV. We currently expect to close in the spring of this year, subject to regulatory approvals.

For your modeling purposes, here are some considerations for how this impacts our financials in the near term. In Q1, we classified the assets and liabilities of Starbucks China's retail operations as held for sale. This required us to cease property, plant and equipment depreciation and right-of-use asset amortization, resulting in reduced D&A and store operating expenses. This means starting in December, we are recording approximately $39 million less in monthly expenses than we otherwise would have recognized prior to announcement. We expect these dynamics will likely continue through the transaction close date.

Upon closing, we expect Starbucks China's retail operations will fully deconsolidate from our consolidated financials, and we expect to convert our 8,011 company-operated coffeehouses to licensed stores within our International segment.

Under the equity method of accounting, Starbucks will record our 40% share of income from the joint venture recognized as income from equity investees. We will also collect revenues from the joint venture for sales of coffee and other products as well as royalty revenues. Our proportionate share of gross profit resulting from these revenues will also be included in income from equity investees.

Turning to our outlook for the year. As we assess our Q1 results, we're seeing exactly what we want to see in our top line at this point in our turnaround. And we are pleased with our continued comp strength in January as well. Our strategy is working and gaining traction. We have always said that we expect the top line to come first and then earnings will follow. As such, our guidance reflects strategic flexibility to leverage our growing top line as we uncover opportunities to further strengthen the business longer term.

For fiscal 2026, we expect 3% or better global comp sales growth, led by 3% or better comp sales in the U.S. as well. In fiscal 2026, we expect approximately 600 to 650 net new coffeehouses as we work to rebuild our development pipeline. This includes 150 to 175 net new U.S. company-operated coffeehouses, a slight decrease in North America licensed coffeehouses and 450 to 500 net new international coffeehouses, of which China comprises close to half. We plan on providing more details of our accelerating pace of growth beyond this year at our Investor Day.

We expect our consolidated net revenues to grow at a similar rate to global comp growth for the full fiscal 2026 as our portfolio repositioning at the end of fiscal 2025 offsets our new store openings. We expect consolidated operating margins to grow slightly year-over-year, driven by improvements in the back half of the year. Remember that our quarterly margin rates follow natural seasonality in the business, and our second quarters are usually the lowest margin quarters of the year.

Our expectations for margin improvement are driven by the following: First, we will anniversary our Green Apron Service investments in Q4. Second, we expect sales leverage builds as we continue to refine and execute our Back to Starbucks initiatives and improve our supply chain. And third, while market dynamics can change, we continue to expect coffee prices and tariff pressures to peak in Q2 and find some relief in the back half of the fiscal year.

Following our structural reorganization last fiscal year, we expect fiscal 2026 consolidated G&A dollars to run below fiscal 2023 levels, providing partial offsets to our investments. We also expect continued discipline on costs more broadly and to find more efficient ways of working across our broader organization around the world. Our EPS guidance of $2.15 to $2.40 reflects our measured approach, investing strategically in the first half to establish momentum then building on our work for growth in the second half.

Note that our guidance contemplates business as usual China operations in the second half of fiscal 2026. We have taken this approach as we believe it provides the cleanest view of our expectations for the underlying business. Furthermore, the timing of close and our use of proceeds from the transaction can influence certain P&L line items, increasing variability in our results. That said, if we assumed a joint venture structure for the second half of fiscal 2026, we expect slightly lower consolidated revenues and comps, partially offset by slightly better consolidated operating margins relative to our original guidance. And on an annualized basis, we believe that the new structure could be approximately 40 basis points accretive to our consolidated margins.

While subject to change, we currently plan to use our transaction proceeds for debt reduction, strengthening our balance sheet and allowing us to execute our long-term growth strategy with greater financial flexibility. Collectively, we expect the transaction to have a $0.02 to $0.03 dilutive effect relative to our current EPS guidance.

In summary, our Q1 performance demonstrates the momentum that we're building in our business and gives us confidence we are on the right path. It's also clear that our work isn't done. We remain focused on driving top line performance and managing our costs to deliver sustainable, profitable long-term growth. And we look forward to speaking further about our future vision tomorrow at our Investor Day.

And with that, we are ready to take your questions. Thank you. Operator?

