Starbucks Corporation (SBUX) Q4 2025 Earnings Call October 29, 2025 4:15 PM EDT

Company Participants

Catherine Park
Brian Niccol - Chairman & CEO
Catherine Smith - Executive VP, CFO & Principal Accounting Officer

Conference Call Participants

David Palmer - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Danilo Gargiulo - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
David Tarantino - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
John Ivankoe - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Lauren Silberman - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Brian Harbour - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Sara Senatore - BofA Securities, Research Division
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Andrew Charles - TD Cowen, Research Division
Hyun Jin Cho - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Andrew Barish - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Christopher O'Cull - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon. My name is Diego, and I will be your conference operator today. I would like to welcome everyone to Starbucks' Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2025 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Catherine Park, Vice President of Investor Relations. Ms. Park, you may now begin your conference.

Catherine Park

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss Starbucks' Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2025 results. Today's discussion will be led by Brian Niccol, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Cathy Smith, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ from these statements.

Any such statements should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements in our earnings release and risk factors discussed in our filings with the SEC, including our latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Starbucks assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements or information. GAAP results in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025 include restructuring and impairment charges, litigation settlements and transaction costs that are excluded from our non-GAAP results.

Revenue, operating income, operating margin, EPS growth and G&A metrics on today's call are also measured in constant currency and represent non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the earnings release on our website at investor.starbucks.com to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP measures and supplemental financial information.

This conference call is being webcast, and an archive of the webcast will be available on our website through Friday, December 12, 2025. Also, for your calendar planning purposes, please note that our first quarter fiscal year 2026 earnings conference call has been tentatively scheduled for Wednesday, January 28, 2026. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Brian.

Brian Niccol
Chairman & CEO

Good afternoon and thank you for joining. A year ago, we launched our Back to Starbucks strategy to get us back to the exceptional craft, connection and welcoming coffee houses that define the Starbucks Experience and set us apart. Since then, we've been focused on executing our plan and accelerating it where we've seen opportunity. We took the significant step of scaling several key pieces of work during the quarter, and it's clear from our results that our plan is working, and our turnaround is taking hold.

We finished the fiscal year strong with 5% global revenue growth and global comparable store sales growth of 1% in the fourth quarter, making it our first positive quarter in 7 quarters. Our North America company-operated comps improved to flat year-over-year, driven by flat U.S. comp and positive comp growth in Canada. And in both markets, transaction comps continued to improve sequentially from the third quarter.

Across our U.S. company-operated portfolio, we more than tripled the percentage of coffee houses with positive transaction comps from a year ago, with year-over-year transactions improving across all regions and dayparts. And we're getting back to winning the morning with flat morning daypart transactions that outpaced our overall recovery in Q4. Notably, our U.S. company-operated sales comp turned positive in September, driven by transactions, and it's remained positive through October, reflecting the momentum taking shape in our business.

Our international segment continued to demonstrate the resilience of our brand, delivering 3% comp sales growth in the fourth quarter, led by strength across our top markets, including Japan, which bounced back into positive comp territory in the quarter as well as China, the U.K. and Mexico. Earnings per share of $0.52 in the fourth quarter continues to reflect the investments we're making in the business to execute our strategy. As I've said before, we expect to grow the top line first and then earnings will follow.

These results demonstrate meaningful progress we've made on our Back to Starbucks plan as we bring our work to scale, and they show the early impact of investments we've made across 3 key areas in fiscal 2025 to deliver exceptional customer service, improve the look and feel of our community coffee houses and get back into culture with an overhauled approach to marketing and menu innovation. First, we've continued to invest in and scale Green Apron Service as the new standard for our coffee house customer experience.

August was a milestone as we went live with a new standard across our full U.S. company-operated portfolio. We made much needed investments in staffing and hours to put more partners on the floor at the right times. We reassessed and extended hours of operations for about half of our U.S. company-operated portfolio so that nearly all are now open consistently at or before 5:00 a.m. We expanded rosters and maintained healthy hours per partner.

And as a result, we had strong partner engagement, record low hourly partner turnover and improved customer experience scores in the fourth quarter. Even though we're only 2 months in, we're seeing the results we want from Green Apron Service, and we're encouraged by the future opportunity we expect it to create as our partners adopt the standard and our customers experience the difference. We set throughput goals to ensure customers get their order on time every time, whether it's in cafe, mobile order or in the drive-thru.

As part of our Green Apron Service rollout, we launched our Smart Queue sequencing algorithm. Since implementation, more than 80% of our U.S. company-operated coffee houses had cafe service times averaging 4 minutes or less, even with greater transaction volumes following our fall launch. Average drive-thru service times are still below our 4-minute target, and Mobile Order and Pay remains highly accurate and on time. Our delivery business in the U.S. has also continued to expand rapidly, growing nearly 30% year-over-year in the fourth quarter and surpassing $1 billion in sales for the full fiscal year.

And we will be nearly complete with the rollout of our Clover Vertica brewer in our U.S. company-operated coffee houses by the end of Q1, making it easier than ever for customers to get a fantastic and freshly brewed cup of coffee of their choice. Second, we're now delivering a great customer experience in coffee houses that are more warm, welcoming and connected to their communities. Earlier this year, we shared that we were assessing -- reassessing our North American portfolio.

The reality, as we came to learn was that we were operating some coffee houses that didn't demonstrate a viable path to profitability or create a warm welcoming space for our customers and partners. As a result, for the full year in fiscal 2025, our North America company-operated store counts declined by approximately 1% on a net basis. With a healthier base of coffee houses, we see meaningful opportunity for growth. We're taking a disciplined approach to how, where and what we build to improve both the customer experience and unit economics.

We are piloting a new Coffee House prototype with lower build costs and optimized space utilization that still deliver a full coffee house experience aligned to our brand. In fact, last month, we converted one of our pickup-only locations in New York into a small format version of this prototype. We're excited to test, learn and iterate. Our teams are also working at pace to ramp up our uplift renovation program, bringing warmth, texture and seating back into our coffee houses.

As of the fourth quarter, we completed nearly 70 uplifts, primarily across New York and Southern California. It's a small sample size, but we are encouraged by the improvements to sales and transactions we've seen to date. We are working to complete more than 1,000 of these uplifts by the end of fiscal 2026. Third, we've overhauled our marketing and our menu innovation, and it's driving stronger customer perception scores and market share growth in the U.S.

On the heels of a successful fall launch, we introduced Protein Cold Foam and Protein Lattes at the end of September. They taste great and they're made from premium ingredients, living up to the Starbucks standards. And they kick off a steady pace of disciplined stage-gated innovation in our menu pipeline. We're only about a month in, and we're learning a lot. Customer awareness continues to build, and it is bringing less frequent customers into our coffee houses.

We're excited about the incremental nature of this platform and its long-term role. Our measure for brand affinity accelerated in the quarter, reaching its highest point since 2023, and Starbucks ranking as customers' first choice was a 5-year record high. We saw the biggest gains in service time, connection and care perceptions, demonstrating the power of Green Apron Service. Non-Starbucks Rewards customer transactions grew year-over-year for the second consecutive quarter across all dayparts, validating our approach to marketing.

And value perception strengthened across all generations in the fourth quarter and for the fiscal year, driven by our investment in Green Apron Service and our proactive moves to bring back the condiment bar, simplify our pricing architecture and remove the extra charge for non-dairy milks. We know our value equation extends beyond pricing. And when we provide great customer service alongside handcrafted personalized beverages made with high-quality ingredients, we provide unmatched value to our customers.

Turning to international. Our growth agenda and Back to Starbucks principles span well beyond North America. In the fourth quarter, our international business reached record revenues of $2.1 billion and ended the year with an all-time high of $7.8 billion. We continue to extend our global reach, opening 316 net new coffee houses in the fourth quarter for a total of more than 900 in fiscal 2025. We also opened brand-building Starbucks flagship coffee houses, including inside the legendary Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid with more flagship coffee houses in store for 2026.

We'll bring one-of-a-kind experiences centered on coffee and craft to even more customers around the world. In China, the team continues to drive demand in a competitive marketplace, delivering 2% comp growth in Q4, its second consecutive quarter of positive comps, and our portfolio crossed 8,000 stores. On the strategic front, we have had very strong interest from multiple high-quality partners, all of whom see significant value in the Starbucks brand and team.

We expect to retain a meaningful stake in Starbucks China and remain confident in the long-term growth potential in the region. As I reflect on fiscal 2025, we did important work to rebuild our core and strengthen our foundation, and we're entering fiscal 2026 on stronger footing. Looking to Q1, the holiday season is a cherished moment for our customers and for our business. It's the first time we're bringing all our work together. Our coffee houses will be more warm and welcoming.

They'll be better staffed; orders will be better sequenced. We'll have a relevant menu with holiday classics like the Peppermint Mocha and Snowman Cookie, alongside returning favorites like the Eggnog Latte, which customers have been asking us to bring back for years. We'll have engaging new ads and great new merchandise that's worth gifting, like our limited edition Bearista glass mugs and Hello Kitty collaboration. And we'll have newly designed gift cards, which have become a holiday staple.

As we bring it all together, I'm confident the holiday season at Starbucks will be iconic, and our customers will see and feel the difference. Building on investments made in fiscal 2025, we're focused on executing with excellence and driving growth through innovation in fiscal 2026. Our intent is to become the world's best customer service company. To do this, we'll double down on Green Apron Service by empowering our leaders in and above the coffee house.

We'll scale the assistant store manager role across more company-operated coffee houses, and we'll dramatically simplify store-level reporting from nearly 2 dozen metrics down to a scorecard of just 5 KPIs that best correlate to comp growth. These are focused on the customer, the partner, transactions, inventory availability and food safety. We are giving our partners the tools, roster and processes to consistently deliver our standard.

And as we work to deliver a consistent customer experience across every coffee house, we're also improving how we work with our licensee partners to provide more tailored support, drive operational excellence and profitably grow together. Just last week, we hosted our North America licensee partners here at our support center, and we're excited for what's ahead. As we work to lead in culture, we're driving continued menu innovation that wins the morning and helps us earn the afternoon.

In 2026, we'll introduce an up-level bake case that features new artisanal bakery products and elevated service wares to mirror our coffee house vibe. And building on our recent matcha reformulation, we'll continue to optimize and up-level our matcha menu with more customizable offerings that meet customer needs and stay true to our brand. Work continues on our supply chain to support our pace of innovation and improve inventory availability. And through 2026, you'll see us announcing improvements to our rewards program and mobile app and new brand activations.

Our strategy is only as good as the people who are executing. And over the past year, we underwent significant change and fast. We asked a lot of our partners across the company, and they're delivering with excellence to build a stronger Starbucks. I would like to take a moment to thank our Green Apron and support partners who are working hard to bring our strategy to life every day. You really can feel the energy and excitement in our coffee houses and the change is real and our partners are leading it.

Whether it's Melissa and her team in Austin that's built up such a strong community there, Jessica and Mari Beth in Nashville, who are clearly dialed into what it takes to deliver great customer service or Oscar in New York and his commitment to coffee house excellence. Your focus on coffee, craft and connection is truly making a difference. So as I conclude, let me put it simply.

We set a plan, we're working the plan, and the plan is working. We have more work to do, but we're building momentum. Regardless of the headwinds and tailwinds we may encounter, I'm confident we have the right team and strategy to deliver long-term sustainable growth. I'll now turn it over to Cathy to share more detail on our financial results.

Catherine Smith
Executive VP, CFO & Principal Accounting Officer

Thank you, Brian. I'll start where Brian ended by also thanking our partners around the world for their focus and commitment to building back a better Starbucks. Their hard work helped us gain traction in the fourth quarter and deliver on some critical objectives that we believe will bring us back to sustainably growing both the top and bottom line. I'll now discuss our Q4 results.

Our Q4 consolidated revenue was $9.6 billion, up 5% to the prior year, reflecting 2% net new company-operated store growth and a 1% increase in global comparable store sales, driven by international outperformance, positive comps in Canada and continued progress in our U.S. business. In the U.S., our comparable store sales were flat year-over-year, with ticket up 1%, reflecting fewer discount-driven offers in the current year.

While U.S. company-operated transaction comps were down 1%, we marked our fourth consecutive quarter of improvement. We are rebuilding our transaction base as we focus on improving the overall value proposition for our customers. We were especially pleased to deliver transaction-led comp sales growth approaching 1% in September as we benefited from the first full month of Green Apron Service across our U.S. company-operated coffee houses as well as the timing shift of our fall launch.

Our 90-day active Starbucks Rewards member base grew 1%, both quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year to 34.2 million members. This was led by higher reengagement and fueled by customers returning for their seasonal favorites and new offerings as part of our fall launch. Transactions among this cohort also continued to improve in the fourth quarter, and our intentional shift away from last year's discounting strategies drove a healthier mix of no discounted transactions.

As Brian mentioned, non-Starbucks Rewards customer transactions in the fourth quarter grew year-over-year for the second consecutive quarter. Our U.S. licensed store portfolio revenue declined in Q4, primarily due to trends in the grocery and retail channels. Travel remains a bright spot, however, with airports delivering positive transaction and ticket growth in the quarter. The College and University segment also showcased year-over-year growth, supported by a good start to the fall semester.

Moving on to International. This segment reported 9% year-over-year net revenue growth in the fourth quarter, delivering another record of over $2 billion. Many of our top international markets contributed to strong comp sales performance in the quarter with China, Japan, the U.K. and Mexico leading the way. China continues to grow and improve profitability. Starbucks China's comparable store sales grew 2% in the quarter, driven by a 9% improvement in comparable transactions.

The market's comp growth was driven by continued product innovation, particularly in its tea latte lineup and a fast-growing delivery business. The team remains nimble in optimizing its product and pricing architecture in a dynamic marketplace. Moreover, Starbucks China's healthy unit economics keep us motivated to capture the abundant white space we continue to see in the region. As Brian mentioned, we remain focused on our search for the right partner to help unlock our future growth potential in China.

As a reminder, the value to Starbucks in a potential transaction includes 3 things: the upfront investment by our future partner, Starbucks retaining a meaningful stake in the China business and future royalty payments. In our Channel Development segment, our Q4 net revenues grew 16% year-over-year due to higher revenue from the Global Coffee Alliance. We remain market share leaders in the North America at-home and ready-to-drink coffee categories amid a challenging coffee price environment.

We continue to work with our partners to adapt and innovate to broaden our reach beyond our cafes. In fact, the 2024 launch of our protein drink in the U.K. has exceeded our expectations, resulting in growth into 8 additional markets in 2025. We have expectations to expand this further next year, including in the U.S. through our North American coffee partnership. Shifting to margin. Our Q4 consolidated operating margin was 9.4%, contracting 500 basis points from the prior year.

This was primarily driven by inflation, led by coffee prices and tariffs as well as investments in support of Back to Starbucks, largely in labor hours. Consolidated G&A in the quarter decreased by 2% versus the prior year to reach approximately 6.6% of revenues. And with our interest expense and effective tax rates generally coming in line with our expectations, Q4 EPS was $0.52, down 34% from the prior year. In the fourth quarter, we took decisive action on multiple fronts to accelerate getting Back to Starbucks.

This included the completion of our assessment of our coffee house portfolio and identified closures as well as a simplification of our broader support organization to one that is streamlined and more closely aligned to our future growth priorities. Let me walk through some of the impacts to our financials. In the fourth quarter, we had 107 net store closures globally as part of the restructuring we announced in September. These coffee houses were deemed unable to meet our standards for customer experience even through a potential uplift or for profitability.

Many fell under both categories. As a result of these closures, we expect a reduction in our baseline North America company-operated revenues, partially offset by sales transfer to nearby coffee houses that remain open. We also expect the impact to operating margins to be slightly accretive. As we look to the future, we are focused on disciplined capital deployment with work underway to reduce build costs and improve the profitability of new coffee houses while continuing to deliver a warm welcoming coffee house environment.

Given that our development pipelines naturally carry long lead times, we expect the benefits of these strategic changes to flow through our P&L gradually over a multiyear period. In the near term, however, we expect that the cost reduction related to streamlining our support structure will have more immediate impacts to our P&L. As such, we expect that our consolidated G&A in fiscal 2026 will run lower than fiscal 2023 levels, serving as a partial offset to our Back to Starbucks investments.

While we expect to provide our near- and longer-term outlook during our Investor Day in late January, the following are some initial considerations for our U.S. company-operated business for fiscal 2026. We're pleased with the progress we've made to date with our positive comps in September continuing through October. Our Green Apron Service standard is ramping, and we're no longer lapping heavy levels of promotion in fiscal 2026. We're excited about a strong holiday lineup, future menu innovation and our coffee house uplifts.

We also recognize that we have more work to do as we continue to rebuild our transaction base. Turnarounds are difficult to forecast. And while we have good reason to believe that our U.S. company-operated comps should build through the year, we also know that recoveries are not always linear. Moving to earnings. We remain disciplined on costs as we focus on allocating our resources to our Back to Starbucks priorities. Our investments in Green Apron Service will annualize through fiscal 2026.

We'll also stay nimble in navigating the current environment where tariffs and coffee prices remain dynamic. As we continue to grow, our goal is that every transaction is higher quality and more profitable. We're on a multiyear turnaround. Q4 was a turning point, having delivered the first quarter of global comp growth in 7 quarters, and we're encouraged by our trends to date in Q1.

We're focused on driving our top line and managing the costs that are within our control, giving us confidence in our path to sustainable, durable long-term growth. As a token of such confidence, we announced an increase to our quarterly dividend earlier this month, recognizing our 15th consecutive year of increase. We are clear-eyed about the work ahead of us, and we're excited about our future. And with that, we are now ready to take your questions. Thank you. Operator?