Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Pang Vitt with Goldman Sachs.

Pang Vittayaamnuaykoon
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division

Congrats for the great set of results. Two questions from me, both on the e-commerce side. Number one, on your growth guidance of more than 25% year-on-year for 2025, what do you bake in, in terms of the driver and competitive landscape? What do it mean for your margin trend? And how should we think about this trend carry into 2026? That's question number one.

Question number two, just to have a good understanding of the margins. So margin trend for e-commerce came down to 0.6% in the quarter despite higher take rate. Can you help us understand where is the investment area, whether this is in the fulfillment, as you mentioned? Or is there also something else that we should be aware of? Are these more fixed all variable? And how long and how much should we expect this investment cycle to be?

Hou Tianyu
Chief Financial Officer

Yes. In terms of the growth assumption of more than 25%, I think we are kind of half into the quarter already. It's basically based on what we see so far in the market on the momentum and competitive landscape. It's pretty much reflective of kind of what we see so far as we come into the quarter. And regarding the margin questions, if you look at the previous year versus this year, we do see a consistent improvement of margin.

If you look at year-to-year basis, as we shared before, we will obviously see quarter-to-quarter fluctuation sometimes for seasonality reasons for some of the investment cycle of the initiatives and could also be a particular market status in terms of where we are pushing some of these initiatives. So I think if you look at a bit sort of year-to-year trend, even going forward, I think we believe that we are able to deliver the 2% to 3% EBITDA margin as we shared before and also have an improvement year-to-year if you look at the yearly basis.

In terms of where we are investing, one of the things is we mentioned in the opening, further investment into the logistic capabilities and fulfillment capabilities. And beyond that, we are also deepening our buy engagement and wallet shares through, for example, our Shopee VIP program that we shared in the opening as well.

And all those efforts have been showing pretty good results. Our buy frequency improved 12% year-to-year and average monthly active buyers increased 15% year-to-year as well, which contributes to our great growth this quarter, which is way above the guidance we gave in the earlier of the year, which is 20%. Most of the investments are less fixed per se. We take a relatively asset-light approach even coming to our logistics and fulfillment businesses. We don't own land.

Most of our CapEx is just improvement of building the warehouses or sorting facilities, et cetera. For our buy engagement and wallet share program on Shopee VIP is also less fixed. Obviously, you will see a little bit of investment in the early days to get everybody understand the program and join the program. But as time goes, it should be a quite profitable program as you probably have seen in other e-commerce platforms across the globe.

Operator

Your next question comes from Divya Kothiyal with Morgan Stanley.

Divya Kothiyal
Morgan Stanley, Research Division

My first question is on your new market entry strategy and framework. Could you explain the rationale behind closing some of the cross-border operations in LatAm and the reentry into Argentina? What milestones would you monitor for Argentina before making it a localized business? And is this part of your 2026 priorities?

My second question is on market shares. If you can comment on the market shares in ASEAN, how have they moved in the third quarter? And also, if you could comment on Taiwan. Do you foresee increasing marketing spends and investments in Taiwan next year? We're also seeing a bigger contribution from cross-border with Taobao getting more popular there. So if you can comment on the market shares on ASEAN and Taiwan, that would be helpful.

Hou Tianyu
Chief Financial Officer

Yes. I think regarding the new market, we take a very highly selective approach on any new geographic expansions. Many of the initiatives will be very early stage testing the market in nature. The reason we look at Argentina is it's essentially an expansion of our capability that built in Brazil, leveraging on our existing cross-border infrastructure and the operational experiences we had already built in Brazil.

The objective is more to capture the operational synergies across the adjacent regions and open additional channel for our sellers with minimal incremental investment. I think we will take some time to learn about the market without sort of have a heavy investment into the market at this point in time. For Chile and Colombia, we decided to wind down our cross-border operation in Chile and Colombia as part of our ongoing review of our global business priorities to ensure our resources are focused on the key business priorities in line with our long-term strategy in the region.

Latin America is still an important market for us. We will continue to explore the opportunities to serve the consumers and business well there. If you look at the absolute size in Latin America, obviously, Brazil is the largest one where we have a very large presence there. Argentina, as we mentioned, and Colombia actually a relatively smaller market and also relatively more distant from Brazil. I guess that's the thinking around the first question.

Regarding the market share in South Asia in quarter 3, as we shared, our growth has been above kind of the expectations we shared before. And across the region, we actually do believe that we are gaining market shares in South Asia. growing faster than the market in South Asia. For Taiwan, in particular, the cross-border to Taiwan has been, in general, a smaller part of the businesses, given the complexity for the buyer experience on cross-border side.

So we are less concerned about the cross-border players selling from overseas to Taiwan as a potential impact to our businesses. Actually, if you look at the recent quarters, we grew very well in Taiwan. We grew double digit, which is faster than the overall market in Taiwan.

So we are pretty confident that given we are the largest e-commerce platform with the largest assortment with the best pricing and also we have the best delivery infrastructure with much lower shipping and fulfillment costs compared to anyone in the market, we are able to defend our market share well. We are able to grow even faster in Taiwan with our infrastructure much better built than previous years.

Operator

Your next question comes from Alicia Yap with Citigroup.

Alicis a Yap
Citigroup Inc., Research Division

Congrats on the solid results. Two questions. One is if you can elaborate a little bit more overall competitive landscape in Southeast Asia. So are there any countries that we are seeing more intense competition lately? And also any countries that where you see peers are growing faster than Shopee? And do you anticipate the live streaming peers to start shift more of the traffic and also the purchase frequency to the shop-based marketplace model in addition to the live streaming? If that is happening, what could be the potential threat to Shopee?

And then second question is, should we assume the investment cycle this time around similar to maybe like a couple of years ago where there could be some step-up investment that are more front-end loaded with GMV growth and my share growth to follow through later, especially for, for example, like you need to ramp up your fulfillment capability in some of the markets, which will yield better results later on. So could you clarify if this time the investment cycle could be similar to what we saw last -- I mean, 2 years ago?

Hou Tianyu
Chief Financial Officer

On the competitive landscape, what we see is relatively stable competitive landscape. I think as you can probably observe as well from your own sources, we didn't see any particular market different from another. I think it has been a general trend across the South Asia market in terms of the intensities or the behavior of the competitors. Regarding whether the live stream peers focus more on shelf-based model, I think it's not something new. I think it's something we try to do for quite a long time.

It's -- as you probably see from China as well, et cetera. But we do see that the nature of the platform is different. I think the percentage of share of commerce, it's relatively consistent, let's say, from what we observed. Also, if there are much more traffic pushing towards that, there is a potential of impacting how the overall app behavior and the user retention as well. But anyway, I think that's kind of a similar behavior you will see in China and South Asia. We wouldn't see that a new thing impacting the competitive [ landscape ] in a meaningful way.

On the investment cycles, I think the short answer is probably not. It's probably quite different from what you see 2 years ago in terms of the investment into the content ecosystem, if you remember that. I think what we are doing now is more as a continuous investment to our business to strengthen our competitive mode pretty aligned with what we shared continuously every quarter. We would like to invest into our infrastructure to have better logistics. And now we are extending logistics fulfillment network as well. It's actually in a way, it's not completely new. It's a capability we have been trying to build for a period of time.

And now we felt it's a good time to scale it even more. But as I shared just now, it's less CapEx-intensive businesses, as you probably imagine. And also, as we grow the businesses, it will help our growth as well because this will help us to lower down the overall cost to serve as an ecosystem and also reduce the delivery times to the user, so help us to penetrate the user more. And many of this contribute to our growth faster than we expected earlier the year as well.

If you take a look at the VIP programs, yes, it's a little bit sort of investment in the early days, but we also see that with the investment, we -- the users are willing to spend more with the platform as well. I think Forrest shared that the users purchased 40% more than before they joined the VIP program. So in a way, it's less big front-load investment than the return come later. I think this time, you will see it's more ongoing investment program to strengthen our competitive mode, as I shared earlier. And this will impact on the general growth as we invest.

Operator

Your next question comes from Piyush Choudhary with HSBC.

Piyush Choudhary
HSBC Global Investment Research

Congratulations for a great set of numbers. Two questions. Firstly, for Shopee Logistics, what percentage of orders are now fulfilled by SPX within Asia and Brazil? How has it changed over the last 1 year or so? How much of increase in your cost of services is driven by this logistics investment and the outlook for this cost item? That is first. Secondly, on Garena, can you share the outlook for Free Fire for 2026 after successful 2025? Any planned IP collaborations, any new game launches?

Hou Tianyu
Chief Financial Officer

On the SPX, I do believe we shared before, more than half of our orders delivered through our SPX and the percentage has been increasing, let's say, overall over the last year as we scale our network. On our cost per order, it has been continuously improving year-to-year. I think that's part of that contribute to our growth as well because this lower down the cost buyer have to pay to receive the orders.

But on top of that, I also want to highlight not only we try to -- not only reduce the cost of our SPX delivery cost, but we also increased the speed for our SPX cost. For mentioned that in Brazil, we reduced the buy waiting time by 2 days, if you look at the year-to-year. In Asia, we also reduced the delivery time quite meaningfully year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter as well by both introducing the faster shipping channel. If you look at many countries, we have the instant delivery now. We also have same-day deliveries, but also reducing the normal delivery channels speed. I think this all helped to contribute to our growth as you see.

Forrest Li
Founder, Chairman & CEO

For the Garena outlook and well, we are very excited to observe the momentum. I think this is extremely valuable like since the turnaround like 2 years after the post-COVID headwind. And in 2024, we have a very, very high growth, and that is the strong momentum continuing into [ 2025 ]. Actually, the growth is even accelerated this year compared to last year. So the momentum is still very, very strong. So we remain very optimistic and positive like for the [ 2026 ], we believe the user base will continue to grow.

The content that the offerings will be more like the experience, the user experience will be more immersive. And I think like specifically this year, through a very, very successful IP collaborations and I think Garena, as an organization, we unlocked a very important capability. So how to continually work with the global IPs and deliver the best content, very unique experience to our large user base, right? Whatever we put on the platform, put into the game like on a single day, more than 100 million gamers from all over the world are going to be able to experience that. It's a very, very such very, very powerful distribution platform, distribution channels.

So we'll continue to work with more IPs. But of course, we'll be also very, very selective as well. And we're also quite excited to kind of see what like the AI can do in terms of the boosting both the creative side, production side and also the user experience side. We think that is a potential boost for the future growth as well. At this moment, we are in the process of like for the detailed planning of next year. I think probably we'll have a better sense we're ready to share to the market what will be the specific outlook we see for Garena in 2026 next quarter.

We always have some new games in our pipeline. We have a very, very strong and dedicated experienced developers to specifically focus on the new games, and we have several games already in the pipeline or like in some markets already live in the trial period, we are learning experiences. And at this moment, I think it's a bit premature to project what is the impact. I think considering the size of the scale of Free Fire in terms of the user base and revenue and profit, I don't think like at this moment, like even if we have any new games at early stage will make significant impact in terms of the user numbers and the revenue and the financial side.

But we're going to continually to put a lot of effort. And I think through the new games development, we also learn about the different genres, and we also learned the difference about some new markets we haven't been to. I think this remains as a very, very good opportunity for future growth. So when we have like we feel it's the right time to share, so we'll also keep all our shareholders and investors informed.

Operator

Your next question comes from Jiong Shao with Barclays.

Jiong Shao
Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division

My first question is on the VIP membership. I'm trying to get a better understanding of that program. That's clearly a great thing to do longer term. I suspect in the near term, I was wondering what's the unit economics look like for the members? And what do you think the eventual VIP member penetration should be in the region? So the reason I obviously ask that is because your gross margins for e-commerce came down a bit quarter-over-quarter. So I suspect it's kind of negative initially. And is that a time frame to kind of reach breakeven for the members?

Second question is about AI. I think Forrest recently did some media interviews talking about AI may power the company to be one of the first trillion dollar company in the region. I was hoping you can talk about what are some of the things potentially you may do or you won't do because some investors are worried about some massive AI CapEx that may be affiliated associated with any kind of new venture.

Hou Tianyu
Chief Financial Officer

On the VIP program, we are still in a very early stage of rolling out the program. As you probably can see, it's only a few months. But we see a very good growth on the users sign up. If you look at sort of quarter-to-quarter, we see a 75% growth on the members. In terms of the GMV penetration, we are still in the early stage, we're still in the teens, and we believe this can be a lot higher, probably similar to the percentage you observe in other part of the world in terms of the penetration.

I think the important thing for us to look at the unit economics is that the -- we would like to make sure the VIP members not only receive better benefit from the platform because they are paid members and they are the important core users. We also want to make sure that we work with our partners to bring the benefit to them as well. If you look at Indonesia [ with ] videos in Vietnam, we work with FTP Play. We also work with ChatGPT as well, offer a free program to the VIP members.

I think all those will help us to have a good unit economics for this program. But you are right, in the early days, it does require some sort of investment to bring the user over. One thing that we monitor very closely is the retention rate. We would like to make sure that the user we bring to the program has good retention.

And in our early market, we see the retention improve almost double from the last quarter to this quarter period of time, which is a big breakthrough for us given that in our market, credit card is not a common payment method in many other markets, people use credit card to make sure that it's a continuous payment. We are working on multiple ways to ensure that the retention goes well with the program well, especially together with our digital finance side through SPayLater as well.

Forrest Li
Founder, Chairman & CEO

Sure. Jiong, on the AI question, yes, I mean, as I shared during the interview you mentioned, we are deeply excited about this new technology. I think it represents a fundamental technological revolution and which will create massive new opportunities and supercharge technology's ability to unlock values for people everywhere. I think it's extremely exciting for the market we are in, which still like millions of -- hundreds of millions of people is underserved, right?

And we have seen that uplift in the past 10 years through the mobile Internet revolution. And we have observed and how that much the smartphone, the mobile Internet transfer and people's life, bring how much like joy convenience to people's life. And of course, we are part of this transformation, and that is what we are really -- as a company, what is about our mission. We try to focus on the applications and how to connect those like fantastic technology to like people's daily life every corner of the -- like from every corner of the world.

And we believe like we'll see some similar pattern of AI revolution, probably we believe this impact and value creation will be much, much bigger. At this moment, so we -- like the things you mentioned, okay, we probably were not going to do what the big tech is going to do. We're not going to like develop -- trying to make some fundamental large language model breakthrough. We're not going to build data centers.

I think like for that part, we are very much like open to work with all the like big tech like who are kind of -- we have a lot of admiration with respect to how much effort and how much they can do to continually have the breakthrough of the technology and make technology more powerful and more useful. And what we are going to more focus on applications and how that technology built in Silicon Valley or anywhere in the world transform to a consumers' daily life, a small business like in Indonesia, in Vietnam, in Brazil. So that will be specially what we are good at.

And we have a lot of best practice we learned in the past decade. And I think that is also kind of like make us really, really excited. So we're going to have a very, very practical and bottom-up approach. So -- and we are very much focused on seeing the immediate return, the result.

As I shared in my opening, right, and we are very excited to see some very practical use say in Shopee, right, and how much this can help on the advertising conversion, how to make the product discovery easier and it's like more discovery and beyond traditional search, right, how to help sellers improve the product listing quality and how to improve the best retention and the conversion rate. And I think I probably shared in the previous like a quarter.

And also this is -- we see the improvement in terms of the customer service capability and now majority of our customer service is handled by AI like a chatbot and the satisfaction rate is very, very high. So that is all the things like we have seen the result and the progress of bottom-up. We believe with the continuing improvement capability built enabled by the more advanced large language model and other part of the AI development, and there will be more and more things we can apply into the day-to-day business and which make a positive impact into people's daily life.

Operator

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Ms. Rebecca Lee for any closing remarks.

Rebecca Lee

Thank you all for joining today's call. We look forward to speaking to all of you again next quarter.

Operator

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.