Stitch Fix, Inc. (SFIX) Q1 2026 Earnings Call December 4, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Cherryl Valenzuela - Head of Investor Relations
Matt Baer - CEO & Director
David Aufderhaar - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Aneesha Sherman - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
David Bellinger - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is Desiree, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Stitch Fix First Quarter 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Cheryl Valenzuela, Head of Investor Relations. You may begin.

Cherryl Valenzuela
Head of Investor Relations

Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us today for the Stitch Fix First Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. With me on the call are Matt Baer, Chief Executive Officer; and David Aufderhaar , Chief Financial Officer. We have posted complete first quarter 2026 financial results in a press release on the quarterly results section of our website, investors.stitchfix.com. We would like to remind everyone that we will be making forward-looking statements on this call, which involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements.

Reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. Please review our filings with the SEC for a discussion of the factors that could cause the results to differ. In particular, our press release issued and filed today as well as our annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2025 and subsequent periodic reports filed with the SEC.

Also note that the forward-looking statements on this call are based on information available to us as of today's date. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Please note that fiscal 2024 was a 53-week year due to an extra week in the fourth quarter. As such, references to our year-over-year revenue growth rates and consecutive quarters of revenue growth in our women's and men's businesses on this call are based on an adjusted 52-week basis, removing the impact of the extra week to combine a comparison that we believe more accurately reflect our performance.

During this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are provided in the press release on our Investor Relations website. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for our GAAP results.

Finally, this call in its entirety is being webcast on our Investor Relations website, and a replay of this call will be available on the website shortly. And now let me turn the call over to Matt.

Matt Baer
CEO & Director

Thank you, Cheryl, and good afternoon, everyone. Q1 was a strong start to the year. Revenue exceeded our outlook and accelerated 7.3% year-over-year to $342.1 million. Adjusted EBITDA also exceeded our outlook and was nearly 4% of revenue at $13.4 million. We are increasingly becoming the retailer of choice for more of our clients' apparel and accessories needs. We are doing this by leveraging the latest in generative AI technology, the expertise of our human stylists and our assortment of leading brands in service of our aim to deliver the most client-centric and personalized shopping experience.

Given our Q1 performance, combined with the robust demand we've seen so far this quarter, we are guiding to a third quarter of accelerating growth in Q2 and raising our full year guidance. The outperformance is the direct result of the compounding benefits we're seeing from the disciplined execution of our transformation strategy. We've strengthened the foundation of our business by embedding retail best practices and building significantly more leverage into our operating model. We have fundamentally reimagined our client experience. We zeroed in on 4 areas to deliver a more modern and dynamic Stitch Fix.

First, delivering enhanced client engagement features; second, cultivating deeper client stylist relationships; third, offering a best-in-class assortment; and fourth, increasing the flexibility of our business model. For example, our increased flexibility now includes dynamic larger fixes, the ability to turn a Freestyle shopping journey into a styled fix, curated theme fixes for specific occasions and use cases and family accounts, which unlock the Stitch Fix experience for the extended family. This comprehensive and customer-driven approach is clearly resonating with clients. Our fix AOV was up nearly 10% in Q1, the ninth consecutive quarter AOV has increased year-over-year as our larger fix offerings and our improved assortment continue to resonate with our clients and better meet their outfitting needs.

We are strengthening our competitive position and gaining market share in our core apparel business. Our strategic expansion into nonapparel categories is further accelerating this growth. By helping clients complete their outfits and dress them from head to toe, we are capturing a greater share of their wallet from other retailers. Our 7.3% year-over-year revenue growth in Q1 meaningfully outpaced Circana's estimated 1% growth for the broader U.S. apparel, accessories and footwear market. Our growth is broad-based with both our women's and men's businesses continuing to accelerate.

In women's, we saw a strong start to fall sales across key seasonal categories such as sweaters, coats, jackets and vests, which combined grew 19% year-over-year. Sneakers, which were up 63% year-over-year, driven by New Balance, Gola and adidas and Wide leg Denim was up 217%, driven by outsized performance in Dave's Denim, Pistola and Madewell. We've also seen great client responses to new brands, especially within activewear and footwear, such as Varley, Birkenstock and Roan. And we're excited to continue to add new brands to our assortment in the coming months. Our men's business delivered a second consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth by leaning more into the elevated everyday and athleisure styles our clients are looking for.

Seasonal categories such as fleece, sweaters and outerwear grew 57% combined, while denim grew 30% and sneakers grew 24% year-over-year. Brands like Travis Matthew and Vuori delivered outsized growth and remain trusted client favorites for style, versatility and quality, while new brands such as Katon, Industry and NN07 have introduced more style and trend into our assortment. We believe that our expanded relevance in activewear and athleisure, footwear and accessories, in particular, could unlock a significant wallet share opportunity and that our fair share with our existing client base in these categories is approximately $1 billion of incremental revenue. We are confident in our ability to capture increased market share in the future.

Just as importantly, we're focused on achieving profitable active client growth. We ended the quarter with 2.3 million active clients at the high end of our expectations. Q1 marked the sixth consecutive quarter of improvement in active client year-over-year growth rates and a return to sequential active client growth in our men's business. We continue to expect a sequential increase in net adds in Q3 of our current fiscal year. Our methodical approach to rebuilding our client base around long-term fit with our service and higher lifetime value paired with a continuously improving client experience is working.

With respect to new clients, 3-month LTVs have grown year-over-year for 9 consecutive quarters and remain at 3-year highs. We also have had more new clients on recurring fixed shipments at the end of Q1 than in any of the prior 6 quarters. Q1 also benefited from higher reengagements with a significantly higher percentage of reengaged clients enrolling in recurring shipments compared to last year. We believe these positive trends confirm the improved quality of our new and returning client cohorts and will lead to greater client retention, higher revenue predictability and improved profitability over the long term.

To build on this momentum and ensure we sustain this improved client quality, we are also focused on delivering growth by leveraging our competitive differentiation in data science and AI. AI is not new to Stitch Fix. When we launched nearly 15 years ago, we disrupted retail with a proprietary data-driven approach. Over time, we've amassed billions of insights on our clients' fit, style and budget preferences that, combined with the human judgment of our stylists, enable us to uniquely deliver ultra personalization at scale. We're capitalizing on this competitive advantage through a suite of AI-powered innovations that aim to drive greater client engagement and retention.

For example, Vision, our generative AI-powered style visualization experience provides our clients with an entirely new and inspiring approach to style discovery, offering personalized shoppable images of each client based on the unique style profile and the latest trends. Another great example is our AI style assistant, which leverages Gen AI to engage in a dialogue with clients and is helping our clients better articulate their individual requests to their stylists. The style assistant draws on each client's style file and the extensive data we already know about them. And the more it's used, the smarter it gets, helping ensure each fit delivers on the client's individual needs.

The scope of our GenAI strategy goes beyond client-facing features. We are taking an enterprise-wide approach, incorporating these capabilities across every area of the business to drive further efficiencies and deepen our competitive advantage as a leading innovator in retail. For example, our merchandising team is using Gen AI to fundamentally transform private brand product development and inventory management. Our Gen AI-assisted design process leverages our proprietary data to develop complete fashion lines, which will enable us to respond to trends more quickly and bring products to market faster. Beyond design, AI provides predictive intelligence for trend forecasting, optimizing inventory and setting intelligent pricing, ensuring every piece of merchandise we sell is calibrated for both profitability and client satisfaction.

The innovations we've introduced across our business will enable us to better serve clients this holiday season. We entered this critical period with our most seasonally relevant assortment and competitive pricing and promotions, enhanced by new and inspiring shopping experiences, including vision, theme fixes and fixes built around a freestyle item. We also launched Stylist Connect, a platform for near real-time client stylist collaboration and introduced family accounts to better support gifting during the season. Holiday performance has been strong with record Freestyle sales for the Black Friday to Cyber Monday period. In closing, we have strong momentum in our business, remain focused on exceeding our clients' expectations and we'll continue to play offense in order to deliver increased market share gains. Now I'll turn the call over to David to share more details of our financial results and future outlook.

David Aufderhaar
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Matt, and good afternoon, everyone. We delivered a strong first quarter that underscores the success of our strategy and the momentum Matt outlined. We're accelerating growth and gaining market share while maintaining financial discipline to ensure that growth is profitable and sustainable. FY '26 is about leaning into innovation and the client experience to strengthen our competitive advantage while continuing to identify savings that fuel reinvestment. Now let's turn to the numbers. Revenue was $342.1 million, up 7.3% year-over-year, exceeding our outlook. Average order value rose 9.6%, driven by more items per fix and higher AUR, reflecting strong demand for larger fixes and our improved assortment.

We ended Q1 with 2.3 million active clients at the high end of our expectations. Revenue per active client reached $559, up 5.3% year-over-year, marking the seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth. The growth in RPAC confirms that our strategy is effectively leading to increased client engagement and spend, ultimately driving a higher share of wallet from our clients. Gross margin was 43.6%, in line with our FY '26 range of 43% to 44%, with contribution margins remaining strong above 30% for the seventh straight quarter. Advertising was 9.9% of revenue in Q1, up 50 basis points year-over-year. Q1 adjusted EBITDA came in at $13.4 million or 3.9% margin, outperforming expectations on strong revenue.

We ended Q1 with $244.2 million in cash and short-term investments and no debt, giving us flexibility to invest in growth. Inventory was $141.5 million, up 18.8% year-over-year, reflecting investments in our larger Fix offerings. Turning to our outlook for Q2 and FY '26. We are increasing our full year guide to take into account the positive trends we are seeing in the business. For full year FY '26, we expect total revenue to be between $1.32 billion and $1.35 billion. We expect total adjusted EBITDA for the year to be between $38 million and $48 million, and we expect to be free cash flow positive for the full year. And for Q2, we expect total revenue to be between $335 million and $340 million.

We expect Q2 adjusted EBITDA to be between $10 million and $13 million. With respect to revenue, we are really encouraged with the trends we have seen in our business so far this year. The resilience in client demand that we saw in Q1 and through the first part of Q2 gives us confidence to guide to another quarter of growth acceleration in Q2 and to raise our guidance for the full year in FY '26. Given the current trends in consumer confidence and the impact of inflation on discretionary spending, we think it's prudent to assume some headwinds in the back half of this year. As a reminder, we will also face tougher AOV comps as we begin to lap the double-digit growth we saw in the second half of FY '25. Both of these considerations have been included within our outlook.

For active clients, we believe our methodical approach to rebuilding our active client base is working. We expect active client year-over-year growth rates to continue to improve in Q2. Additionally, we remain on track to deliver a sequential increase in net adds in Q3 FY '26. We continue to expect full year gross margin to be approximately 43% to 44% and full year advertising costs to be between 9% and 10% of revenue. We're investing thoughtfully in AI and innovation, which we expect to drive stronger client engagement and retention over time. These investments are already included in our outlook, and we'll scale them judiciously. Our strong first quarter demonstrates the health of our business. A commitment to client engagement and operational discipline drove revenue and market share gains.

Looking ahead, we remain confident in our strategy, which prioritizes sustainable, profitable growth. With that, operator, we can open the line for Q&A.