Sprouts Farmers Market, Inc. (SFM) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 29, 2025 5:00 PM EDT

Company Participants

Susannah Livingston - Vice President of Investor Relations & Treasury
Jack Sinclair - CEO & Director
Curtis Valentine - Chief Financial Officer
Nicholas Konat - President & COO

Conference Call Participants

Michael Montani - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Seth Sigman - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Leah Jordan - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Mark Carden - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Edward Kelly - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Thomas Palmer - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Rupesh Parikh - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
John Heinbockel - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Robert Ohmes - BofA Securities, Research Division
Scott Mushkin - R5 Capital LLC
Scott Marks - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Benjamin Wood - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Kelly Bania - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Charles Cerankosky - Northcoast Research Partners, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to Sprout's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Susannah Livingston, Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasury. Please go ahead.

Susannah Livingston
Vice President of Investor Relations & Treasury

Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased you are joining Sprouts on our third quarter 2025 earnings call. Jack Sinclair, Chief Executive Officer; Curtis Valentine, Chief Financial Officer; and Nick Konat, President and Chief Operating Officer, are with me today. The earnings release announcing our third quarter 2025 results, the webcast of this call and financial slides can be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our website at investors.sprouts.com.

During this call, management may make certain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our expectations for 2025 and beyond. These statements involve several risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our SEC filings and the commentary on forward-looking statements at the end of our earnings release.

Our remarks today include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Please see the tables in our earnings release for a reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP figures. With that, let me hand it over to Jack.

Jack Sinclair
CEO & Director

Thanks, Susannah, and good afternoon, everyone. In the third quarter, we delivered strong earnings growth, up 34% year-on-year with a 5.9% comp and strong new store performance. Our results continue to be driven by our execution on the key pillars of our strategy. We saw an increase in customer traffic as we effectively engaged with our target customers, while our most differentiated and attribute-based products continued to drive sales as we continue to expand our store presence from C to shining C.

In addition, our ongoing inventory management improvements in supply chain contributed to the expansion of our EBIT margin. Together, these achievements demonstrate the strength of our teams and the durability of our strategy.

While it was a solid third quarter, it fell short of our top line expectations. As the quarter progressed, our comp sales moderated faster than expected as we came up against challenging year-on-year comparisons as well as signs of a softening consumer. As we look ahead, the investments we have made provide us with levers to manage our business and deliver earnings growth.

Today, we'll walk you through our performance highlights, update you on our strategic initiatives and share how we're positioning Sprouts for the rest of 2025 and beyond. I want to thank the team for their ongoing commitment to supporting our customers on their health journey. For now, I'll hand it over to Curtis to review our third quarter financial results as well as our updated 2025 outlook. Curtis?

Curtis Valentine
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Jack, and good afternoon, everyone. In the third quarter, total sales were $2.2 billion, up $255 million or 13% compared to the same period last year. This growth was driven by a 5.9% increase in comparable store sales and the strong results from new stores. Traffic remained positive and accounted for approximately 40% of our third quarter comp.

Our key points of differentiation continued to drive our sales with attribute-forward products growing faster than our core business. E-commerce sales grew 21%, representing approximately 15.5% of our total sales for the quarter, with good performance from all partners. Additionally, Sprouts brand continues to resonate with our target customers and now represents more than 25% of our total sales for the quarter.

While our third quarter yielded solid results, we expected more from our top line as we underestimated the impact of lapping strong numbers from last year in the context of a softening consumer backdrop. We believe our strategy always has us well-positioned to capitalize on the surging interest in health and wellness.

Last year, we saw outsized gains in new customers, substantially growing our customer base. And by and large, we've kept those customers. Against that backdrop, we have managed our costs and margins effectively. Our third quarter gross margin was 38.7%, an increase of 60 basis points compared to the same period last year. This improvement was mainly attributable to improved shrink.

SG&A for the quarter totaled $653 million, an increase of $73 million and 13 basis points of leverage compared to the same period last year. This improvement was largely driven by lower compensation expense, which was partially offset by increased benefit costs and pressure from our new store growth.

Depreciation and amortization, excluding depreciation included in the cost of sales, was $39 million. For the third quarter, our earnings before interest and taxes were $157 million. Interest income was approximately $690,000, and our effective tax rate was 24%, including a benefit of $0.03 predominantly from a purchase discount for transferable tax credits. Net income was $120 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.22, an increase of 34% compared to the same period last year.

During Q3, we opened 9 new stores, ending the quarter with 464 stores across 24 states. We are encouraged by our new store performance and the positive response we are getting from customers as we enter new communities across the country. The team continues to improve our processes and partnerships to accelerate our development cycle and our planned expansion into the Midwest and the Northeast is providing fertile ground for site approvals.

We plan to open more stores in 2026 than in 2025 and believe we are on track to get to our 10% unit growth in 2027. A strong and healthy balance sheet has underpinned our financial performance. Year-to-date, we generated $577 million in operating cash flow, which allowed us to self-fund our investments of $194 million in capital expenditures, net of landlord reimbursement to grow our business. We have also returned $342 million to our shareholders by repurchasing 2.4 million shares. We have $966 million remaining under our new $1 billion share repurchase authorization that was approved by the Board of Directors in August. We ended the third quarter with $322 million in cash and cash equivalents and $23 million of outstanding letters of credit.

On July 25, we closed a $600 million revolving credit facility, which replaced our previously existing $700 million revolver. The terms and conditions are substantially similar to our previous agreement with a new expiration date of July 2030. While we plan to fund operations and unit growth through our robust cash flow generation, this facility provides Sprouts with financial flexibility as we grow.

As we look ahead for the remainder of this year, we are balancing the strength of our business strategy against the consumer uncertainty and challenging year-over-year comp compares. For the full year, we expect total sales growth to be approximately 14% and comp sales to be approximately 7%. Given the strong execution of our real estate pipeline and fewer time line delays, we now plan to open 37 new stores in 2025.

Earnings before interest and taxes are expected to be between $675 million and $680 million, and earnings per share are expected to be between $5.24 and $5.28, assuming no additional share repurchases. That said, we expect to continue repurchasing shares opportunistically. We also expect our corporate tax rate to be approximately 24% -- during the year, we expect capital expenditures, net of landlord reimbursements, to be between $230 million and $250 million.

For the fourth quarter, we expect comp sales to be in the range of 0% to 2% and earnings per share to be between $0.86 and $0.90. In the fourth quarter, year-over-year margin rate in both gross margin and SG&A are normalizing. Despite pressure to our top line, we expect to be able to grow EBIT dollars in line with our sales growth to deliver stable year-over-year margins in the fourth quarter.

Despite facing challenging revenue comparisons, we remain confident that we have a resilient business capable of delivering solid earnings growth. This reflects our ongoing commitment to operational efficiency and disciplined cost management. These factors provide us with earnings stability while we continue to invest in our future growth. And with that, I'll turn it back to Jack.

Jack Sinclair
CEO & Director

Thanks, Curtis. Over the years, we have built a strong foundation for sustainable long-term value creation. We focus on driving growth through differentiated innovation, strengthening our operations, enhancing our digital capabilities to deepen customer engagement and expanding our store footprint, all while investing in our talent and technology.

Together, these elements form the cornerstone of our strategy, positioning us to compete effectively. The broader health and wellness movement in the United States continues to gain popularity. With this in mind, we remain committed to expanding and strengthening our unique product offering. We continue to see strong customer demand for our attribute-driven products, which remain a key driver of our sales growth.

Currently, more than 1/3 of our sales come from organic products, and we'll continue investing in this important attribute for our customers, ensuring they have access to the best in organic offerings at a great value. The supplement sector is also evolving within our stores, focused on areas such as longevity, women's health and gut health, trends that resonate with our health enthusiast customers.

The Sprouts brand now accounts for more than 25% of our sales and with a robust product pipeline planned for the next 3 years, we are committed to continuing our growth. What makes our Sprouts brand unique are our innovative products and flavors, such as herb-stuffing potato chips and maple-flavored coconut pillows, new for this year's fall season.

In the third quarter, we launched new wellness bowls, each priced under $10. These bowls feature attributes like grass-fed beef, organic tofu and responsibly-sourced salmon. They're packed with protein, bold flavors such as sesame garlic ponzu and high-quality fresh ingredients at a fantastic price. Our customers are responding, and we're pleased with the early results.

As we look to the future of forging, we're investing to ensure that we continue to lead in this space, supported by a robust pipeline of innovation and deep partnerships with entrepreneurial brands that view Sprouts as the ideal launch platform. These partnerships energize us. And together, we're excited to introduce approximately 7,000 new products for 2025 that align with our customers' values and lifestyles.

To stay ahead in a rapidly evolving market, we're expanding the capabilities of our forging team to better anticipate emerging trends and customer needs. Over the past year and into early 2025, we expanded our customer base, attracting a meaningful number of new shoppers. We are pleased to see that the vast majority have remained engaged. On the marketing front, we continue to partner with our influencers, extend our reach in new markets and have started utilizing our Sprouts Rewards to engage with our customers.

Speaking of the Sprouts Rewards loyalty program, it's fully launched this week, marking an essential step in our Sprouts customer engagement and personalization journey. We have seen good growth in our identifiable customers and the stores are taking ownership of this important initiative. Although it's still early in the program, we are observing encouraging indications of increased shopping frequency and sales per customer in our early rollout geographies and are excited to see our progress in the coming months.

On the supply chain front, we're excited about our ongoing transition to self-distribution in fresh meat and seafood. It has been a difficult year for us in the meat category as multiple third-party supply disruptions led to availability challenges and customer disruption, further underscoring the importance of controlling our destiny through self-distribution.

Through October, we have successfully completed the transition at 4 of our existing distribution centers, leading to increased delivery frequency to our stores and improved fill rates. Looking ahead, we anticipate completing this transition by the second quarter of 2026 with the opening of our new Northern California distribution center, further solidifying our commitment to operational excellence.

The new stores we've opened this year are performing well, both in terms of top line revenue and bottom line profitability. Additionally, last year's vintage is entering the comp base well, further validating the effectiveness of our model. We're particularly pleased about our robust new store pipeline, which currently includes 140 approved locations. This highlights the strength of our brand and also demonstrates the scalability of our format.

We are confident that we will be able to meet the evolving needs of our customers while also achieving our ambitious growth targets. To that end, we are pleased that we plan to open 37 stores in 2025, exceeding our original target of 35. We're excited to welcome 3,700 new Sproutees to our team and to expand access for our target customers, allowing us to bring the Sprouts experience to more communities nationwide.

The effective execution of our strategic initiative is made possible by the dedication and talent of our team members throughout the organization. Central to our culture is a shared belief in our purpose and values, which form the foundation of our long-term success. I want to express my gratitude to our 35,000 team members for their unwavering commitment to serving our customers every day.

We acknowledge the challenges of sustaining the momentum built from last year's exceptional results alongside an evolving consumer backdrop. We have an amazing business that has significant potential. We are confident in the resilience of our business model and are dedicated to investing in our foundations for sustainable long-term earnings growth. Thank you for joining us today. We look forward to sharing more of this journey with you in the quarters to come. And with that, I'd like to turn it over for questions. Operator?