Star Group, L.P. Common Units (SGU) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 9, 2025 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Chris Witty - Investor Relations Contact
Jeffrey Woosnam - President, CEO & Director of Kestrel Heat LLC
Richard Ambury - CFO, Executive VP, Treasurer & Secretary of Kestrel Heat, LLC

Conference Call Participants

Timothy Mullen
Michael Prouting

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Star Group Fiscal 2025 Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Witty, Investor Relations Adviser. Please go ahead.

Chris Witty
Investor Relations Contact

Thank you, and good morning. With me on the call today are Jeff Woosnam, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rich Ambury, Chief Financial Officer. I would now like to provide a brief safe harbor statement.

This conference call may include forward-looking statements that represent the company's expectations and beliefs concerning future events that involve risks and uncertainties and may cause the company's actual performance to be materially different from the performance indicated or implied by such statements.

All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements. Although the company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's expectations are disclosed in this conference call, the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2025, and the company's other filings with the SEC.

All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements. Unless otherwise required by law, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise after the date of this conference call.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Jeff Woosnam. Jeff?

Jeffrey Woosnam
President, CEO & Director of Kestrel Heat LLC

Thanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our fourth quarter conference call. It's an exciting time for us as we conclude another fiscal year and begin a new heating season.

As we close out 2025, it's a great opportunity to reflect on Star's performance over the past 12 months. Most notably, temperatures were 8% warmer than normal this year, but 8% colder than in fiscal 2024. The lower temperatures coupled with recent acquisitions resulted in a 29 million gallon or 12% year-over-year increase in heating oil and propane volume.

At the same time, we kept overhead expenses largely in check, maintained disciplined margin management and continued to invest in installation and service as a complementary service offering, which posted revenue growth of over -- of nearly 10% over fiscal 2024. The resulting bottom line impact on these efforts, along with cooler temperatures, fueled a year-over-year increase in adjusted EBITDA of $24.8 million or 22.2%. While net customer attrition rose modestly, we believe we are taking the necessary steps to manage through this with our ongoing focus on customer service across our operating footprint.

Our internal customer satisfaction indicators and loss rates continue to improve, although we observed a lower level of overall real estate activity in the marketplace, which in part impacted new customer additions. Our acquisition program remains an important component of our overall business strategy. And in total, we completed 4 separate transactions during fiscal 2025, adding just under 12 million gallons of heating oil and propane volume annually. We continue to have many additional opportunities in various stages of review.

In terms of overall capital allocation, in fiscal 2025, we invested approximately $81 million towards acquisitions and $16 million in unit repurchases and paid $26 million in distributions. We believe all of these activities serve to increase shareholder value. A recap of our results would not be complete without mentioning how proud I am of our talented team of employees who have not only supported but taken genuine ownership in effectively executing our strategy of differentiating Star from the competition through providing outstanding service and value to our customers.

We are steadfast in our mission to grow and diversify the company by continuing to make both heating oil and propane acquisitions, keeping net attrition as low as possible and maximizing installation and service profitability over time. We look forward to taking advantage of further opportunities to improve the organization and its performance in fiscal 2026.

So with that, I'll turn the call over to Rich to provide additional comments on the quarter and year-end results. Rich?

Richard Ambury
CFO, Executive VP, Treasurer & Secretary of Kestrel Heat, LLC

Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. For the fourth quarter, our home heating oil and propane volume increased by 1.5 million gallons or 8% to 20 million gallons as the additional volume provided from acquisitions more than offset net customer attrition and other factors.

Our product gross profit increased by $2.5 million or 6% to $45 million as the positive impact from higher home heating oil and propane volume was only offset by slightly lower per gallon margins, driven in part by the mix of volume associated with recent acquisitions. Delivery, branch and G&A expenses increased by $5 million year-over-year, largely reflecting the additional operating costs attributable to acquisitions of $4.2 million.

Operating costs in the base business rose by just $800,000 or less than 1%. Depreciation and amortization rose by $1.3 million and net interest expense increased by $1.4 million year-over-year. These changes were largely attributable to the impact from recent acquisitions. We posted a net loss of $28.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025 or $6.4 million less than the prior year period, reflecting a noncash favorable change in the fair value of derivative instruments of $12.2 million and a $3.8 million benefit from the sale of certain real estate.

The impacts of these positive items were largely offset by a $3.6 million lower income tax benefit, a $3.3 million increase in our adjusted EBITDA loss, again, higher depreciation and amortization expense and higher acquisition-related financing costs, along with other factors. The adjusted EBITDA loss for the fourth quarter increased by $3.3 million to $33 million as the impact from an increase in volumes sold was more than offset by slightly lower home heating oil and propane per gallon margins and an increase in operating expenses of $5 million, again, of which $4.2 million was due to recent acquisitions.

Now turning to the results of fiscal 2025. Our home heating oil and propane volume increased by 29 million gallons or 12% to 283 million gallons, again, reflecting colder temperatures and the additional volume provided from acquisitions more than offsetting net customer attrition and other factors. Temperatures in Star's geographic areas of operations for the full year were 8% colder than the prior year period, but 8% warmer than normal.

Our product gross profit rose by $57 million or 12% to $525 million due to an increase in home heating oil and propane volumes sold and higher home heating oil and propane per gallon margins and a slight increase in gross profit from other petroleum products.

In addition, as previously mentioned on prior calls, we've improved our service and installation profitability, which contributed to an increase in gross profit of $3.8 million year-to-date. Delivery, branch and G&A expenses rose by $36.6 million, of which $10.6 million was attributable to our weather hedging program. As a reminder, in fiscal 2025, we recorded an expense of $3.1 million under our weather hedges compared to a benefit of $7.5 million recorded in fiscal 2024, reflecting weather conditions in both periods.

Aside from this, recent acquisitions accounted for an increase in expenses of $23 million year-over-year, while related costs in the base business rose again by just $3 million or 0.8%. Depreciation and amortization rose by $3.9 million and net interest expense increased by $2.8 million. These changes again were largely attributable to the impact from recent acquisitions.

We posted net income of $73.5 million for fiscal 2025 or $38.2 million higher in the prior year period largely due to an increase in adjusted EBITDA of $24.8 million and a noncash favorable change in the fair value of derivative instruments of $32 million, which more than offset higher income tax expense of $16 million and other factors.

Adjusted EBITDA rose by $24.8 million to $136.4 million, reflecting an $18.5 million increase in adjusted EBITDA in the base business and $17 million increase in adjusted EBITDA from recent acquisitions, partially offset by a $10.6 million change in expenses relating to the company's weather hedge contracts.

And with that, I'll turn the call back to Jeff.

Jeffrey Woosnam
President, CEO & Director of Kestrel Heat LLC

Thanks, Rich. At this time, we'd be pleased to address any questions you may have. Chloe, can you please open the phone lines for questions?