Shell plc (SHEL) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 30, 2025 10:30 AM EDT

Company Participants

Sinead Gorman - CFO & Director
Wael Sawan - CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Matthew Lofting - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Lydia Rainforth - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Jason Gabelman - TD Cowen, Research Division
Martijn Rats - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Kim Fustier - HSBC Global Investment Research
Biraj Borkhataria - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Douglas George Blyth Leggate - Wolfe Research, LLC
Christopher Kuplent - BofA Securities, Research Division
Michele Della Vigna - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Joshua Stone
Alastair Syme - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Peter Low - Rothschild & Co Redburn, Research Division
Ryan Todd - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Mark Wilson - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to Shell's Third Quarter 2025 Financial Results Announcement. Shell's CFO, Sinead Gorman, will present the results, then host a Q&A session alongside Shell's CEO, Wael Sawan.

[Operator Instructions]

We will now begin the presentation.

Sinead Gorman
CFO & Director

Welcome to Shell's Third Quarter 2025 Results Presentation. This quarter, we delivered another strong set of results. Our adjusted earnings were $5.4 billion, and we generated $12.2 billion in cash flow from operations. The quarter-on-quarter improvement was driven by strong performance across our businesses with all demonstrating positive momentum. This quarter clearly illustrates our focus on performance, discipline and simplification is laying the foundations of a winning performance culture across Shell.

So let's start with performance. In Integrated Gas, strong operational delivery drove higher liquefaction volumes, which in turn enabled a higher contribution from LNG trading and optimization this quarter. The start-up of LNG Canada where 13 cargoes were delivered from Train 1 in Q3 contributed to these volumes, and there's more to come with the expected startup of Train 2 later this quarter.

Welcome to Shell's Third Quarter 2025 Results Presentation. This quarter, we delivered another strong set of results. Our adjusted earnings were $5.4 billion, and we generated $12.2 billion in cash flow from operations. The quarter-on-quarter improvement was driven by strong performance across our businesses with all demonstrating positive momentum. This quarter clearly illustrates our focus on performance, discipline and simplification is laying the foundations of a winning performance culture across Shell.

So let's start with performance. In Integrated Gas, strong operational delivery drove higher liquefaction volumes, which in turn enabled a higher contribution from LNG trading and optimization this quarter. The start-up of LNG Canada where 13 cargoes were delivered from Train 1 in Q3 contributed to these volumes, and there's more to come with the expected startup of Train 2 later this quarter.

In Upstream, our strong operational performance resulted in higher production. Together, Brazil and the Gulf of America made up more than half of our liquids production in Upstream. In Brazil, we achieved our highest ever quarterly production. And in the Gulf of America, we reached our highest quarterly production level since 2005. Both were supported by successful project ramp-ups such as the Whale project in the Gulf of America, which reached nameplate capacity with wells producing above the investment case expectations. This was achieved in less than half the expected time, showing the benefit of our design one, build many philosophy.

And we also saw numerous examples of operational excellence in other parts of the company. In marketing, the business delivered its second highest quarterly adjusted earnings in over a decade, as we continue to capture more value through growing margins of our premium products. Chemicals & Products results also improved quarter-on-quarter with stronger crude and products trading, whilst chemicals continues to face challenges with weak margins.

Moving to our second focus area, simplification, where the organization is making real progress. At our QGC asset in Australia, for instance, production reached an all-time high in the third quarter. This was supported by a reduction of almost 90% in well site permits ensuring operations are not only safe and fit for purpose, but also allowing the team to free up time for even more value-added activities.

We're also simplifying our portfolio, just as we said we would at Capital Markets Day. We continue to maintain a relentless focus on value over volume, high-grading the portfolio, where we see the opportunities to do so. And you can see this in our mobility business. Year-to-date, we've divested or closed some 400 lower-performing retail sites. Beyond mobility, we have completed the divestment of the noncore interest in the Colonial Pipeline, which generated around $1 billion in proceeds. And we also completed the sell-down of five Savion solar projects as part of our power strategy, where we are allocating capital to part of the value chain that offer higher returns and where we have differentiated capabilities.

Our third focus area is discipline. We take our responsibility as custodians of shareholders' capital extremely seriously. And that is why we made the difficult but value-driven decision to not restart the construction of our HEFA biofuels facility in Rotterdam. And we continue to apply that rigorous value-driven lens to all of our investments. Our disciplined approach to capital allocation allows us to remain resilient throughout the cycle while continuing to invest in growth within our $20 billion to $22 billion cash CapEx range such as the HI gas development project in Nigeria, where we took a final investment decision this month.

Looking at our financial framework more broadly. In Q3, our net debt decreased as we continue to maintain a strong balance sheet. We also continue to deliver attractive shareholder distributions. And at the end of Q3, our 4-quarter rolling shareholder distributions were 48% of CFFO, in line with our target range of 40% to 50% of CFFO through the cycle. And today, we announced another $3.5 billion share buyback program, which we expect to complete by the time of our Q4 results announcement. This marks the 16th consecutive quarter in which we have announced $3 billion or more in buybacks. Once this program is completed, we will have repurchased more than 1/4 of our shares over the last four years.

So to summarize, in Q3, we delivered strong financial results, improving our performance quarter-on-quarter. This improvement was driven by strong operational performance across the company and we'll keep delivering on what we say, focusing on performance, discipline and simplification. So we can continue to deliver more value with less emissions. Thank you.