SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 2:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Marc Holliday - Interim President, Chairman & CEO
Harrison Sitomer - Chief Investment Officer
Matthew Diliberto - Chief Financial Officer
Steven Durels - Executive VP and Director of Leasing & Real Property

Conference Call Participants

Alexander Goldfarb - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
John Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Nicholas Yulico - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Anthony Paolone - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Blaine Heck - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Brendan Lynch - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Manus Ebbecke
Ronald Kamdem - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Peter Abramowitz - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Seth Bergey - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Vikram Malhotra
Michael Lewis - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Caitlin Burrows - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you, everybody, for joining us, and welcome to the SL Green Realty Corp.'s Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Results Conference Call. This conference call is being recorded.

At this time, the company would like to remind listeners that during the call, management may make forward-looking statements. You should not rely on forward-looking statements as predictions of future events as actual results and events may differ from any forward-looking statements that management may make today.

All forward-looking statements made by management on this call are based on their assumptions and beliefs as of today. Additional information regarding the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause such differences to appear are set forth in the Risk Factors and MD&A sections of the company's latest Form 10-K, and other subsequent reports filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

During today's conference call the company may discuss non-GAAP financial measures as defined by Regulation G under the Securities Act. The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure discussed and the reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and the comparable GAAP financial measures can be found on both the company's website at www.slgreen.com by selecting the press release regarding the company's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings, and in our supplemental information included in our current report on Form 8-K relating to our Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings.

Before turning the call over to Marc Holliday, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SL Green Realty Corp., I ask that those of you participating in the Q&A portion of the call to please limit your questions to 2 per person. Thank you.

I will now turn the call over to Marc Holliday. Please go ahead, Marc.

Marc Holliday
Interim President, Chairman & CEO

Okay. Thank you for joining us this afternoon as we kick off the year. It's been just weeks since our investor conference, but we've already hit the ground running on our business plan for 2026. We are about a month into the Mamdani administration and know there's a lot of pressure and focus on the Mayor coming out of the gate. But it's going to take some time for the Mayor Mamdani to put an imprint on how he'll govern. He's still putting his team together and they're at the very early stages of getting their arms around the city.

We did see an early test this week with a major snowstorm here in New York, about a foot of snow in Manhattan on Sunday, and the administration did a great job getting the city back to normal quickly with the Mayor being very visible and communicating effectively. At the same time, there's a lot of political maneuvering going on as we enter budget season in Albany. This is the time of year when the city makes its case to get the biggest chunk of the state budget as possible for the coming fiscal year, reflecting the city's enormous contribution to the state economy.

This is especially true with the new administration eager to invest in the initiatives and promises made on the campaign trail. I know there's been a lot of talk recently about potential city budget deficits, $2 billion this coming fiscal year and up to $10 billion, the following. My own view is that the city starts off every budgetary period with a gap that needs to be plugged and this year is no different. It's not just about expenditures on the revenue side, there's a lot of good news with tax collections up 8.5% in 2025, a big portion of which came from growth in personal income.

One thing that's certain is that the business economy in New York City had an incredible year in 2025, and I believe that when the new revenue forecast come out in the next few weeks we'll see that the city will be projecting significant additional revenue increases that will help defray the current deficit. Remember, the city's budget is required by law to be balanced at the beginning of every fiscal year, and we continue to remain confident in the city's fiscal stability and strength.

Let's not forget that New York City's credit rating is AA and was reaffirmed by S&P as recently as October, which noted that the city has the budgetary reserves needed to navigate any near-term risks. At our Investor Conference in December, I made the case for what I believe was shaping up to be a stellar 2026. As we sit here on January 29, I feel the same. In short, I think 2026 is setting up to be quite an amazing year for the commercial office sector in terms of occupancy gains, rental achievement and business growth.

Given the lens I look through today, the fundamentals are strong. Businesses are still leasing space and expanding, growing their businesses and making lots of money. The big 5 banks just reported increases to earnings year-over-year with profits in the fourth quarter up 6.7%, and investment banking revenues up 12.6%.

And we're expecting when Wall Street member firms finally report fourth quarter profits, they will come close to meeting, or exceeding the current all-time high of $61 billion, as the number stood at $48 billion through the first 9 months. Between Wall Street, the big 5 banks reporting and what we see going on in our own portfolio, it all reaffirms our view at investor conference that New York City is differentiating itself from other U.S. cities in significant ways, and will continue to be the central focus of investors looking to deploy capital in debt and equity this year and beyond.

Case in point, I led a contingency from SL Green that just finished a 10-day swing through Asia, where we collectively held two dozen meetings with debt and equity capital sources, investors, buyers, sellers, asset managers and sovereigns. I can tell you that the appetite to invest in New York was as strong as I have ever seen.

As we continue our travels around the world, we expect to see a similar theme play out. I expect that transaction volume for 2026 will be even higher than last year, which was $23 billion, an amount that was roughly equivalent to that of 2019. And it will only facilitate the company's execution on our $7 billion refinance plan and our $2.5 billion disposition plan.

We set lofty goals for ourselves in December, as we always do, and know you all will be monitoring our progress every step of the way, as you should. We like that pressure, and we've never been more motivated to meet or exceed those goals in this year.

What emboldens me is that the private markets completely get it. One point I highlighted at investor conference, Paramount trading at under $4 a share and then selling for nearly $7 was not lost on anyone. The private markets see economic growth in real terms, the coalescing of young and highly educated talent and strong business demand right here in New York City. So we're going back to work on what we can control and keep putting numbers on the board until we see it reflected in stock price, which I know we will because the disconnect now is simply too big to ignore between the value of our premier assets in this company and our share price.

And to be clear, one of those premier assets is our human capital. The people of SL Green, who will generate more than $100 million in fee revenue from institutional investors who look to us to develop, manage and monetize investments on their behalf. I hope everyone out there appreciates our efforts and the enormity of the plan we have for 2026, and thank you for continuing to support our company.

Now I'd like to turn it over to our Chief Investment Officer, Harry Sitomer, who will add some color on how we're progressing on our business plan.

Harrison Sitomer
Chief Investment Officer

Thank you, Marc. On the capital markets front, 2026 is off to a busy start. First, in the credit markets, we have seen a continued tightening of senior loans as demonstrated by our recent financing of Park Avenue Tower, which priced at a spread of 1.58% at our full proceeds ask. Most notably, we saw AAAs representing over 50% of the transaction, sell as tight as 112 basis points over the treasury rate. While this rate is a compelling borrowing rate I will remind everyone that in 2018 and '19, we saw similar classes trading in the 60 basis point range over treasuries. So there's still a substantial amount of room for further rate tightening across the capital stack and, of course, in the index.

We will continue to benefit from this momentum as we execute on our $7 billion financing strategy this year, highlighted by the refinancings of One Madison Avenue, 245 Park Avenue and our corporate credit facility, which total approximately $5 billion of the $7 billion plan. We are in various stages of executing on each of these financings, and you should expect to see us roll out a series of announcements through the balance of the year as we enjoy a tightening senior borrowing market for quality assets and sponsors.

In the equity markets, we are seeing a wide array of new entrants rejoin this market as a result of improving sentiment and investors realizing the relative value of New York City commercial office properties versus alternative investment opportunities in an economic climate where hard assets are otherwise trading at premiums. We had a busy New Year's Eve closing out our partnership with Rockpoint at 100 Park where we quickly realized on a substantial premium from the acquisition 11 months prior.

With the building now 100% leased, us and Rockpoint together will fund the necessary cost to complete the capitalization of the project. We welcome Rockpoint to our blue-chip roster of reliable partners. They are a great firm, and we expect to do more together. This was Rockpoint's first major office deal in 6 years, a testament to the recovery in New York City. We are in negotiations on contracts and term sheets on 4 additional transactions in our $2.5 billion plan, and look forward to sharing updates as we further our JV and counterparty roster.

On that note, and to reiterate Marc's earlier color, I will add what a difference a few years makes in the private markets. After our investor conference, my phone and inbox was flooded with inbounds looking to explore participating in our capital markets plan for the year. And Marc talked about Asia, but the interest is really across the globe. I'm seeing it domestically in Canada, Europe and the Middle East as well. I haven't seen this widespread of demand since pre-2020, and New York is clearly defining itself as far and away the city to invest capital in today.

On the fund side, while we have seen stability in the senior lending markets where we are borrowers, we still are seeing inefficiencies and imbalance in the subordinate credit space where our fund is focused. We are tracking for $150 million to $175 million of deployment per quarter, and the team is hard at work deploying that capital for our customers. We are also pleased to announce that we will be launching fundraising for our next fund focused on senior credit lending as we continue to bulk up our fund business. More on this to come over the next few months.

Finally, last but not least, a shout out to Green Loan Services which is now the largest active special servicer of SASB loans in the country, now servicing 5 of the top 10 largest specialty serviced loans.

With that exciting news, I will pass it over to Matt.

Matthew Diliberto
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Harry. Clearly, out of the gates, strong here in January, no matter how many snow days people in the market seem to want to take recently. As excited as we are for what's ahead, I want to take a minute to highlight the results we posted for the fourth quarter where many of our operating metrics exceeded the expectations we just laid out in early December at our investor conference.

From an earnings perspective, we printed an FFO beat of $0.02 a share, driven by higher NOI due to lower expenses, net of reimbursements, which came through both in the earnings beat and in same-store cash NOI that was better than we expected for the quarter. Results in improved contribution from our hospitality business, which saw a solid fourth quarter of activity and lower G&A, which, as I highlighted back in December, is already low based on our AUM and relative to the comparable peer set.

These positives were partially offset by lower operating profit from SUMMIT, which is affected by the later-than-expected opening of the Ascent premium experience in mid-November, and some additional maintenance costs we incur related to it. And finally, for those who like to refer to FAD, hopefully, you took note that we actually beat the initial guidance we gave back in December of 2024 by $65 million, almost $20 million of which happened in the fourth quarter alone.

On the leasing front, we closed out another banner year. Congrats to Steve and his team with almost 800,000 square feet of Manhattan office leasing in the quarter, bringing the annual total to 2.6 million square feet, and our 3-year total to almost 8 million feet. And the strong leasing in December specifically allowed us to ultimately exceed our mark-to-market expectations for both the fourth quarter and the full year.

Our same-store leased occupancy objective was also met, albeit a couple of weeks later than we expected. We ended the year at 93%, which is sector-leading and reflects an increase of almost 400 basis points since the lows at the end of the first quarter of 2024. Yes, we did say we would end the year at 93.2%. However, some tenants in our pipeline that we expected to sign in December, decided they wanted to enjoy the holidays with friends and family versus answering Steve's phone calls and signing leases, so they waited until January. Including the same-store leases that were signed after January 1 in our December occupancy, we would have been at 93.2%. So it's simply a matter of timing, nothing more.

More importantly, with 142,000 square feet signed so far in January and a pipeline of more than 1 million square feet behind that, we are well on our way to achieving our 2026 leasing goals, including our same-store occupancy objective 94.8% by the end of the year. All in all, a very solid fourth quarter, puts us on great footing to achieve the objectives we laid out for 2026 and for earnings growth in the years beyond.

With that, I'll turn it back over to the operator for questions.

