The Scotts Miracle-Gro Company (SMG) Q1 2026 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Brad Chelton - Vice President of Treasury, Tax & Investor Relations
James Hagedorn - CEO & Chairman of the Board
Nate Baxter - President & COO
Mark Scheiwer - Executive VP, CFO & Chief Accounting Officer
Josh Meihls

Conference Call Participants

Peter Grom - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Christopher Carey - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
W. Andrew Carter - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Joseph Altobello - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Jonathan Matuszewski - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
William Reuter - BofA Securities, Research Division
Carla Casella - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Presentation

Brad Chelton
Vice President of Treasury, Tax & Investor Relations

Good morning. Welcome to Scotts Miracle-Gro's First Quarter 2026 Earnings Webcast. I'm Brad Chelton, Head of Investor Relations. Speaking today are Chairman and CEO, Jim Hagedorn; President and Chief Operating Officer, Nate Baxter; and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, Mark Scheiwer. Jim will provide a strategic overview, Nate will provide a business update, and Mark will follow with a review of our financial results.

In conjunction with our commentary today, please review our earnings release and supplemental financial presentation slides, which were published on our website at investor.scotts.com prior to this webcast. During our review, we will make forward-looking statements and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please be aware that our actual results could differ materially from what we share today.

Please refer to our Form 10-K filed with the SEC for details of the full range of risk factors that could impact our results. Following the webcast, Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff, Chris Hagedorn, will join Jim, Nate and Mark for an audio-only Q&A session. To listen to the Q&A, simply remain on this webcast. To participate, please join by the audio link shared in our press release. As always, today's session will be recorded. An archived version will be published on our website. For further discussion after the call, please e-mail or call me directly.

With that, let's get started with Jim's update.

James Hagedorn
CEO & Chairman of the Board

Good morning, everyone. I'm taking a slightly different approach with our call today. I'm going to focus on the strategies we're employing to drive more value for Scotts Miracle-Gro's shareholders, along with a discussion around new longer-term financial priorities we've established through 2030. Nate will take you through the progress on our plans, and Mark will close with this customary review of our first quarter results.

I'm really excited to share where the business is headed. There are a lot of great things happening at Scotts right now. Our company has real superpowers, our brands, R&D, supply chain and sales, and we're investing them to greater levels from innovation, advertising and digital marketing to automation and technology. We have unique and strong retail relationships. We're working with these partners to put more marketing and consumer activation dollars into driving purchases of our high-margin branded products versus lower-margin commodities.

These investments approaching $1 billion annually are absolutely critical to engaging core and emerging consumers. We're delivering strong gross margin improvement through ongoing supply chain optimization and by bringing new innovation to consumers. And we're in a way better place with our capital structure. We're on a path to leverage ratio between 3 and 3.5x, which is our sweet spot. We're comfortable in this range because of our ability to generate strong free cash flow. Our cost of capital works really well at this level, too.

Just as importantly, we're taking substantive shareholder-friendly actions that go well beyond our healthy dividend. In Q1, the Board of Directors approved a new multiyear $500 million share repurchase program that will begin later in '26 in a measured and disciplined manner. The ultimate goal is to get our share count to around 40 million shares. The bottom line is, we are more focused than ever on being the best Scotts Miracle-Gro company that we can be. We're advancing this concept at every turn, and it's having a positive impact on our results.

We're on track with our key metrics and have full confidence that we'll achieve the fiscal '26 guidance and potentially then some. That guidance is a conservative outlook that we projected at the end of last year. And since then, we've developed more aggressive longer-term targets to put our company solidly on a multiyear growth trajectory. That's the bigger story I want to discuss. My comments are less about the performance in this quarter and more about the future. I threw down a challenge to Nate earlier this year to deliver an incremental $1 billion in top line sales and total EBITDA of $1 billion. I put no time frame on it.

Nate came back with a framework of a plan that would have us reaching these targets around 2030 on the strength of a 5% annual top line growth through innovation, pricing, volume, M&A, not crazy M&A, but modest tuck-ins that augment or fill in gaps in our lawn and garden portfolio. We're now implementing these growth targets, and Nate and his operating team are putting together the building blocks that will unlock this level of growth. He'll be ready to share that plan in more detail later this fiscal year at our Investor Day that we're planning for the summer.

Mark and Nate are also anxious to meet with strategic shareholders who want to be part of this longer-term plan and hear more about it. Achieving these longer-term goals will require a growth rate that is more ambitious than the low single-digit gains we projected in our fiscal '26 guidance and mid-range goal through '27. I can help reconcile this for you. We aren't changing our guidance, but we do believe there's a good probability that we'll outperform it.

Nate's operating plan for '26 establishes a path to a more accelerated growth rate. The better our performance in '26, the easier our long-term objectives will come together. We've also built our incentive program this year on Nate's '26 operating plan, which includes strong branded sales growth and gross margin improvement that will drive higher EBITDA and lower leverage. To get 100% payout on the incentive plan, will require us to outperform the guidance.

I'm not only super excited by this, I'm also energized by our commitment to significantly reduce our share count, starting with the first tranche of $500 million. We believe our current share price does not reflect the true value of our business, which is why our commitment to shareholder repurchases reflects our strong view of the long-term value of our company. Nate, Mark and our Board of Directors are fully supportive. In addition, early feedback from key investors also shows support for this initiative. Upon full execution of the long-term objectives, we're looking at a potential shareholder return in excess of 50% with the share price well north of $100.

Repurchases will begin in '26 as we get our leverage ratio comfortably below 4. Reducing our share count to around 40 million shares over time will require an investment much greater than the $500 million. So this is a long-term commitment that will require future authorizations from the Board. There is also flexibility in the plan. Mark is the gatekeeper. Repurchases will be made using free cash flow and modulated to ensure we stay within our leverage targets. If we fall short of our financial plan in any given year, we'll slow the pace of repurchases.

The program is a win for shareholders all the way around. Being the best Scotts Miracle-Gro also requires us to be focused on lawn and garden, free of distractions. The divestiture of Hawthorne will do just that. The pending sale of Hawthorne to Vireo Growth is good for Scotts Miracle-Gro and Hawthorne. It will allow each of us to do what we do best. While we expect to close the deal this quarter, we've already moved Hawthorne from our operating financials. Classifying it as a discontinued operation is having an immediate positive effect.

It has contributed to a 40 basis point improvement in gross margin and further strengthens our balance sheet. It will eliminate the impact of cannabis sector's volatility in our share price. There's a benefit to Hawthorne, too. Vireo's CEO is a guy named John Mazarakis, a founder of the investment firm, Chicago Atlantic, who is running the same play Chris and I sought to build in the cannabis space. He's driving much needed consolidation and Vireo is on track to becoming a top operator with a terrific multistate map.

He's treating many of the people who are part of these acquisitions as partners and retaining their expertise. Vireo is well capitalized and acquiring Hawthorne will allow it to expand into cultivation supply and open up more growth potential for Hawthorne. The sale of Hawthorne will be through an exchange of shares, giving us a key investment in Vireo. Chris will also join the Board of Vireo, chairing a newly formed Strategy Committee and joining the Comp, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.

SMG will enter into customer agreements to continue providing manufacturing, R&D, transitional and other services. Looking at the bigger picture, it's clear we found a good home for Hawthorne while further strengthening the most powerful lawn and garden franchise in a category that's growing. Despite our delivering consistent positive performance quarter after quarter, we've not seen it show up in the stock price. There is one upside to being undervalued. It gives us even greater opportunities to buy more shares back and deliver improved results for long-term investors.

We are not so much focused on quarterly results as we are on disciplined achievement of the milestones that will enable us to realize our financial goals. I hope everyone on this call is excited about what you're hearing today. We're at an inflection point. We're done looking in the rearview mirror. We have an aggressive offensively driven plan for the future. And we're very confident about that future, and it's absolutely on the side of creating more value for our shareholders.

Next up is Nate.

Nate Baxter
President & COO

Welcome, everyone. Jim laid out our strategy and financial priorities. And when it comes to delivering them, I view this as a 3-stage approach to execution. The first involves our work to achieve the fiscal 2026 guidance. The second is what we're doing to accomplish our midterm financial priorities through fiscal '27. And the third is the plan we're building for the longer-term goal of $1 billion in top line sales growth and $1 billion in EBITDA. The message today is we're on track to deliver the '26 guidance and the midterm priorities.

And as Jim said, we see opportunities to outperform, but as you know, our season is just getting started. As for the aggressive longer-term priorities, my team and I are developing a comprehensive plan that we'll share by our next Investor Day. This morning, I'm going to talk mostly about fiscal '26, which is the building block to our mid- and long-term plans. Our growth algorithm is focused on these key areas: First, incremental listings, including new product introductions across all our categories; second, e-commerce gains across our retailer base; third, growth in our high-margin branded products; and fourth, pricing.

The path to achieving our targets is centered on the consumer. Despite being the lawn and garden market leader, we have a clear opportunity to grow household penetration. In some of our biggest categories, it's as low as 10%. At the same time, our demographics are shifting. Our core consumer is the baby boomer and Gen Xer, but is evolving rapidly to the emerging millennial and Gen Zers. The best news is the lawn and garden consumer is healthy and engaged in the category. Our products fit nicely in the space of small, affordable projects around the home.

Consumers are increasingly spending time on their lawns and in their gardens, not just for the aesthetics, but for their physical and mental well-being, too. All of this speaks to our opportunity. We must engage with a broader and more diverse group of consumers. You can expect us to increase household penetration and encourage greater frequency in the use of our products. We'll focus on expanding the channels in which we reach consumers. We're going to drive product development to expand our portfolio and include more organic, natural and biological solutions.

We're going to adapt our marketing to engage emerging consumers and enhance their experience, and we'll seek M&A through strategic tuck-in acquisitions that can fill gaps or build out our portfolio. We're progressing in each of these areas. We have ramped up innovation across our categories. In lawns, a new granular turf builder lawn food with a formulation emphasizing safety for kids and pets, we will launch this quarter. We're also bringing to market the 10-minute lawn care program, an updated line of ready-to-spray liquid fertilizers that feature a new applicator tailored for ease of use.

Expansion of our successful Miracle-Gro Organics line is also underway. And with Ortho, this month, we introduced an indoor light trap for flying insects and new ant-trap products. This builds on the success of last summer's Mosquito Kill & Prevent product launch. Frequency of purchase is also critical. We are doing more to educate consumers on the value of multiple feedings for both lawns and gardens. We spoke in past calls how this effort boosted consumer takeaway with lawn fertilizers in 2025, and there is more to go get.

We're taking a similar approach with indoor gardening to encourage gardening as a year-round activity. This is supported by our new Green Thumb indoor marketing campaign that launched in Q1 in conjunction with a new line of indoor gardening products. We've seen positive results with this effort. As for M&A, we are intent on finding innovative, unique brands that resonate with consumers. And our initial focus is on licensing or distribution agreements to explore partnerships and test product strategies.

Any tuck-in M&A we complete will be margin accretive and have no negative impact on leverage. Beginning in fiscal '27, we will be the exclusive national distributor, manufacturer and marketer of Black Kow products. This product line is led by Black Kow manure and organic soils. It's going to augment our Miracle-Gro organic line by appealing to a whole new consumer. Black Kow is a premium soil amendment product used primarily by gardeners who like to curate their own soils.

Line reviews start next month with retailers. We have also entered into an agreement to become the primary representative for Murphy's Naturals. This partnership provides us access to a high-quality team focused on innovation in natural insect repellants and will help enhance the current R&D, brand work and products we offer in the naturals and organic space. Channel expansion continues to be a focus. Do-it-for-me is an opportunity here.

We are not interested in what we did in the past with the Scotts Lawn service. However, we have the potential to be a key supplier of the best and most effective products for small- and medium-sized professional lawn and garden service providers. We are testing this concept in 2 markets this spring to gauge our full potential in this space. Looking at the online channel, more consumers across all age groups are turning to digital and e-commerce to learn about products, engage with companies and ultimately make purchases.

In Q1, we launched a robust digital platform where we consolidated all brands under scottsmiraclegro.com with AI-driven consumer guidance, educational content and e-commerce capabilities as well as the ability to offer loyalty programs in the future. With this enhanced website, we are better able to partner with our retailers as they look to sell more of our products online. It's one of the many ways we're enhancing the consumer experience. Overlaying all our initiatives is our ongoing work to drive down operating costs and optimize our organization while increasing investments in our franchise.

This has contributed to the outstanding job the team has done on improving gross margin. We have budgeted an incremental $30 million in CapEx this year for a total of $130 million. We're planning Marysville plant upgrades to support fertilizer innovation. We're going to increase automation across our supply chain, expanding the capacity of our growing media network to stay ahead of growing demand in our branded soils business and implementing transformational AI and technology company-wide.

On the brand side, we'll continue to increase investment to the tune of $25 million this year, focusing on key areas such as media, digital and R&D. This incremental spend is enabled by the transformation work we completed last year, coupled with thoughtful reallocation of resources to focus on our priorities. Some of this will include authentic marketing campaigns geared towards the growing Hispanic population.

In addition, we recently secured the naming rights to the Columbus Crew Soccer Stadium, providing great brand recognition for the Major League soccer season and upcoming World Cup events. Soccer is one of the fastest-growing sports and its fans are a key demographic for us. As you can see, we are making progress on multiple fronts and are on track to our guidance. Our '26 plan is solid and will serve as the stepping stone to the bigger financial goals.

We have the best brands in a unique category, and we're looking forward to bringing more consumers into the wonderful world of lawns, gardens and green spaces. I'm most excited about the momentum we're building. I see many more good things happening for our company and shareholders as our season gets underway and the year unfolds.

Here's Mark with the financial details.

Mark Scheiwer
Executive VP, CFO & Chief Accounting Officer

Thank you, and hello, everyone. Jim and Nate provided a great overview of our strategy and all the work we are doing to successfully execute upon it. We are making strong and consistent progress as we focus on actions that drive long-term value creation. We are off to a good start and optimistic for the year. We continue to strengthen our capital structure, advance our financial priorities and invest in the growth of our core lawn and garden business.

The new multiyear share repurchase program demonstrates our commitment to shareholder-friendly actions that go beyond a robust quarterly dividend. The repurchases will be executed in a measured manner to ensure alignment with our capital allocation strategy, our focus on leverage reduction and the guidance we established for fiscal '26. We anticipate a phased approach with the repurchases expected to begin in late 2026 and increasing over time as we further reduce our leverage ratio to be in line with our financial goal of below 3.5x.

With this background, I'll move to our performance, starting with the divestiture of our Hawthorne business. With our Board's commitment and a pending sale transaction, starting this first fiscal quarter, we are classifying Hawthorne as a discontinued operation. We have removed Hawthorne from our ongoing operations and are reporting it separately as a single line item in the P&L called loss from discontinued operations, net of tax.

The prior first quarter result of operations have been updated to reflect this as well. We plan to recast the financial results to reflect Hawthorne as a discontinued operation for each of the quarterly periods in fiscal '24 and '25. This will occur within the next few weeks and will help with your financial modeling and comparisons when you look at the performance of our consumer business for these past 2 years. As part of the transaction, Vireo Growth will acquire Hawthorne in exchange for its equity.

And moving forward, this equity will be reported as a minority investment in our financial statements. In connection with the classification of Hawthorne as discontinued operation, we took a pretax asset impairment charge of $105 million, recorded within the loss from discontinued operations, representing the excess of Hawthorne's carrying value over its estimated selling price. Looking at our top line sales this quarter, total company net sales, which exclude Hawthorne, were $354.4 million.

U.S. consumer sales of $328.5 million were ahead of expectations due to changes in the timing of early season load-in with certain customers. Our first quarter represents around 10% of our full year sales and mostly reflects load-in activities tied to the upcoming spring and summer lawn and garden season. We expect retailers to increase these load-in activities as we draw closer to the POS curve. And in fact, retailer shipments in January picked up at a record pace making it one of the highest January shipment months ever.

Moving to POS. I want to call out an update this quarter to our reporting of U.S. consumer POS activity to align more closely with our go-forward focus of driving growth in our branded product sales, broadening our customer base and growing in e-commerce. We listen to your feedback and have taken steps to improve the clarity of our POS data that we will use consistently in the future. Starting this quarter, we are providing a robust and comprehensive view of POS by expanding reporting from our previously reported 3 largest customers to include POS data from 15 of our largest customers, including e-commerce.

Reported POS will be for branded products only, excluding mulch, private label and commodity items. In addition, POS by key business categories of lawns, gardens and controls has been added to our supplemental financial presentation slides posted on the website earlier this morning. This updated measure is more directionally aligned with our shipment activity and represents over 80% of our total U.S. consumer sales activity.

Under this new reporting approach, our fiscal '25 POS dollars were up 2%, closely mirroring our plus 1% in U.S. consumer sales. POS for the first quarter, which is less than 10% of our full fiscal year, was slightly down at 1% in both dollars and units compared to the first quarter of fiscal '25. For context, the first quarter we just reported was comping against one of our strongest first quarters on record last year. Additionally, much of the fall season in calendar '25 was pulled forward due to favorable weather conditions, and this showed up in our strong POS in August and September of fiscal '25.

Also, during the first quarter of fiscal '26, you're starting to see POS dollars and units move more in line with one another compared to recent years due to a shift in our mix strategy. We expect this trend to continue. Some of the POS bright spots in Q1 included gardens and Roundup. Nate explained the opportunities we see in indoor gardening, and this began to play out in Q1. POS and indoor gardening was up 7.7% in dollars and up 9% in units. In addition, Roundup saw strong consumer demand and was up 24% in dollars and 27% in units.

We also saw good growth year-over-year in spreaders, weed and insect control products. E-commerce was again a strong growth area as we continue to drive substantial gains primarily through our retailer e-commerce sites. For the quarter, e-commerce POS dollars for our branded products were up 12% and units were up 17%. Branded product e-commerce sales represented 14% of our overall POS in Q1, a 150 basis point increase over prior year. Gross margin expansion is a financial priority.

And for the quarter, we delivered a GAAP gross margin rate of 25%, up 90 basis points over prior year. The non-GAAP adjusted gross margin rate was 25.4% compared with 24.5% a year ago. The improvement was primarily driven by ongoing supply chain cost efficiencies, coupled with our planned pricing actions.

Moving down the P&L. SG&A for the quarter decreased 7% to $106 million, the result of equity compensation decreases that were partially offset by an increase in media and marketing to support our brands. Looking at the non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA for the quarter, it was $3 million, ahead of our expectations due to the timing shift of U.S. consumer sales tied to seasonal load-in activities of our retail partners.

Below the line, interest expense continued to fall from lower debt balances and interest rates. Interest expense was $27.2 million, down 20% from the first quarter of fiscal '25. We also reduced leverage nearly 0.5 turn, ending the quarter at 4.03x net debt to adjusted EBITDA compared with 4.52x in the first quarter of fiscal '25. This was a result of continued deployment of free cash flow to debt reduction and improved EBITDA.

Regarding free cash flow, it was favorable by $78 million in the quarter due to timing of accruals and our continued focus on working capital management, including further supply chain optimization and automation, making us more nimble during the seasonal inventory build. As for the bottom line, we delivered improvement here, too. We typically report a loss in our first fiscal quarter. This quarter, the GAAP net loss from continuing operations was $47.8 million or $0.83 per share versus $66.1 million or $1.15 per share in prior year.

The non-GAAP adjusted loss for the first quarter was $44.6 million or $0.77 per share versus $50.2 million or $0.88 per share in prior year. Overall, we are pleased with our first quarter performance and have full confidence in our fiscal '26 financial guidance, which includes U.S. consumer net sales growth of low single digits, non-GAAP adjusted gross margin rate of at least 32% and non-GAAP adjusted earnings from continuing operations per share range of $4.15 to $4.35 per share.

Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA growth of mid-single digits and free cash flow of $275 million, driving leverage ratio down to the high 3s. As we continue to deliver upon the key elements of our mid-range plan through fiscal '27, we are shifting our sights to the long-term growth prospects for our company. Jim addressed the financial priorities through fiscal 2030, and you can expect us to share more details related to these priorities and the plan at an Investor Day event we are planning this summer.

Thank you, and I will now turn it over to the operator.

