Snowflake Inc. (SNOW) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 3, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Katherine McCracken
Sridhar Ramaswamy - CEO & Director
Brian Robins - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Sanjit Singh - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
S. Kirk Materne - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Brent Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Daniel Knauff - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Arti Vula - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Matthew Martino - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Aleksandr Zukin - Wolfe Research, LLC
Patrick Edwin Colville - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Brad Reback - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Michael Cikos - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Matthew Hedberg - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Tyler Radke - Citigroup Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon. Thank you for attending today's Snowflake Q3 Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Call. My name is Jen, and I will be your moderator for today. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I'd like to pass the conference over to our host, Katherine McCracken. Please proceed.

Katherine McCracken

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us on Snowflake's Q3 Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. Joining me on the call today are Sridhar Ramaswamy, our Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robins, our Chief Financial Officer.

During today's call, we will review our financial results for the third quarter fiscal 2026 and discuss our guidance for the fourth quarter and full year fiscal 2026. During today's call, we will make forward-looking statements, including statements related to our business operations and financial performance. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause them to differ materially from our actual results. Information concerning these risks and uncertainties is available in our earnings press release, our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC reports.

All our statements are made as of today based on information currently available to us. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such statements. During today's call, we will also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures, see our investor presentation for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures and business metric definitions, including adoption. The earnings press release and investor presentation are available on our website at investors.snowflake.com. A replay of today's call will also be posted on the website.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Sridhar.

Sridhar Ramaswamy
CEO & Director

Thanks, Katherine, and hi, everyone. Thank you all for joining us today. As every company transforms to embrace the AI era, Snowflake remains at the center of today's AI revolution. We have delivered yet another strong quarter, thanks to the hard work and dedication across our team to help our customers realize value through all their end-to-end data life cycle, and effectively harness AI's potential every step of the way.

Our continued focus on operational rigor and close knit products and go-to-market execution has helped us maintain strength across our core business and innovate rapidly to bring new capabilities to market. We are executing with urgency and focus and maintaining deep partnerships with our customers that enable us to capture the opportunity in front of us and sustain durable momentum. Product revenue in Q3 was $1.16 billion, up 29% year-over-year. Remaining performance obligations totaled $7.88 billion, with year-over-year growth accelerating to 37%.

Our net revenue retention remained stable at a very healthy 125% and we added a record 615 new customers this quarter. As we continue to deliver strong revenue growth and healthy results, we are increasing our growth expectations for the year and reiterating our margin target. As I've shared, Snowflake is on a mission to empower every enterprise to achieve its full potential through data and AI and we are making incredible progress against that mission every day.

We continue to double down on what makes Snowflake unique, delivering an AI data cloud that's truly enterprise-ready with a radical focus on our customers. Snowflake is intuitive and easy to use, seamlessly connected for collaboration and built with the security and governance that enterprises trust as their foundation. That's why customers like Coca-Cola Consolidated, PayPal and thousands more are transforming their businesses with Snowflake. And it's why more organizations than ever are going all in on Snowflake as their foundational data and AI platform.

Already, Snowflake is the cornerstone for our customers' AI strategy. In Q3, more than 7,300 accounts are using our AI capabilities every week. Just recently, Morgan Stanley named Snowflake its Strategic Partner of the Year, recognizing how our AI Data Cloud is accelerating their transformation and driving AI innovation across one of the world's leading financial institutions.

And with the general availability of Snowflake Intelligence, we are seeing the fastest ramp in product adoption in our company history. Already 1,200 customers are harnessing next-generation agentic AI capabilities to drive real business impact at scale. Snowflake Intelligence is transforming how businesses interact with their data, turning natural language into real-time actionable intelligence.

For example, TS Imagine, a global SaaS platform for financial services, use Snowflake Intelligence to build an AI agent that now handles staff equal to 8.5 full-time employees. The agent helps users manage and query data, make faster trading and risk management decisions and automate customer case resolution, increasing transparency across teams and with clients.

And Fanatics, the global leader in sports merchandise and e-commerce, uses Snowflake intelligence to connect billions of fan data points across shopping, collectibles and gaming platforms for more than 100 million fans worldwide. This Unified Data Foundation helps Fanatics better understand its customers, boost sales and grow its advertising business, powering the launch of new Fanatics advertising audience network this year.

This momentum has enabled us to achieve a major milestone. $100 million in AI revenue run rate achieved 1 quarter earlier than anticipated, thanks to our pace of innovation, cross-functional collaboration and early adoption among many of our marquee customers. Because we operate as a consumption-based business, this number reflects real-world enterprise usage. It's a direct signal of how customers are using our AI capabilities in production to create value today.

What's more, our AI capabilities are strengthening our customer relationships and expanding the value we deliver across every stage of the data life cycle. AI is a key driver of the strength that we see in our core business. In Q3, we landed a record number of new logos and continue to build strong momentum with AI influencing 50% of the bookings signed this quarter. We also deepened relationships with existing customers as 28% of all use cases deployed during the quarter incorporated AI.

But being enterprise-ready is not just about innovation, it's also about reliability. When a major cloud service provider experienced an outage this quarter, our disaster recovery capability seamlessly transferred more than 300 mission-critical workloads to backup systems, ensuring business continuity for our customers when it mattered the most.

Our commitment to making business critical capabilities, just work continues to resonate with our customers. And so we've built on this strength by expanding not only our product capabilities, but our ecosystem. This quarter alone, we announced new partnerships with Workday, Splunk, Palantir, UIPath and more to deepen integration, enable secure and seamless data access across the systems our customers use every day and unlock new innovations like agent to agent collaboration.

More recently, we announced a landmark partnership with SAP to unite mission critical business data with the Snowflake AI Data Cloud. We are already supporting customers like AstraZeneca to access and analyze real-time data. These partnerships amplify our ability to deliver value to joint customers and extend our go-to-market reach. Our progress is clearly resonating with our global community.

During Snowflake's annual world tour, over 40,000 customers, partners and prospects, joined us across 23 events, a record-breaking turnout representing a more than 40% year-on-year increase in participation from last year. More recently, our annual Build Developer Summit saw a 43% increase in attendance year-over-year underscoring the growing excitement and engagement across our global audience. Behind this incredible momentum is our relentless focus and continued delivery against our product strategy.

Throughout the quarter, Snowflake maintained a rapid pace of innovation, bringing our total GA product capabilities to 370 year-to-date, a 35% increase over last year with AI being front and center. As I shared, Snowflake Intelligence continues to set the tone for enterprise-grade agentic AI.

Just recently, we announced that Snowflake is the official data cloud provider for USA Bobsled/Skeleton, powering their journey to the upcoming Olympic Games. The team is using Snowflake Intelligence to unify and analyze data across its performance ecosystem to optimize, push performance and equip coaches with data-driven insights to create a competitive edge on the ice for a medal worthy performance.

At the core of our AI philosophy is customer choice and flexibility, empowering organizations to leverage the world's leading models securely on their own enterprise data. As you may have seen a few weeks ago, we announced our partnership with Google Cloud to make the latest Gemini models available to our 12,600-plus customers within Cortex AI and Snowflake Intelligence, further enhancing access and customer choice.

To drive even more tailored innovation, we introduced Cortex AI for financial services, a comprehensive suite of AI capabilities and partnerships that empower financial services companies to unify their financial data ecosystem, deploy AI models, applications and agents securely and meet the rigorous security and compliance standards for regulated industry.

Even as we supercharge the data life cycle with AI, we remain committed to strengthening our core data foundation. To ensure that Snowflake will continue to deliver the trusted, performant and scalable data platform our customers rely on every day. Key capabilities like Snowflake OpenFlow are making it easier than ever to bring in structured, unstructured, batch or streaming data into Snowflake.

Take EVgo, which is using OpenFlow to simplify and speed up how it ingests data across its EV charging network. By consolidating multiple data pipelines into Snowflake, EVgo has reduced latency, improved reliability and gained a more complete view of its customers and charging stations. And we are continuing to extend our value through strategic acquisitions. We recently acquired the technology behind Datometry software migration solution, which will enable our customers to move from legacy data warehouses to Snowflake at lower cost and with minimal disruption, further simplifying their journey to our AI data cloud.

We have also agreed to acquire Select Star to enhance our Horizon catalog and deliver a more complete view of an enterprise's data estate. We believe this richer context will empower agentic AI experiences like Snowflake Intelligence to better understand enterprise data and uncover deeper insight. As we scale the breadth and depth of our product capabilities, we continue to maintain tight integration across sales, marketing, product and engineering to effectively launch and scale new offerings and deepen our customer relationships.

This alignment is driving tangible results. Q3 marked a strong bookings quarter underscored by accelerating RPO growth and healthy customer retention. At the same time, we are investing in and strengthening our strategic go-to-market partnerships. In addition to those I've already mentioned, today, we've announced an expanded partnership with Anthropic. This brings native model availability into Snowflake and also introduces a new joint go-to-market motion designed to accelerate enterprise AI adoption.

We also continue to build our strong relationships with major cloud providers. In fact, Snowflake has already surpassed $2 billion in sales through AWS Marketplace in a single calendar year and was just recognized with 14 AWS Partner award wins, more than any other ISV provider. This underscores the extraordinary demand for Snowflake's AI data cloud.

Momentum is also accelerating with our global systems integrators. Accenture just launched a Snowflake Business Group, committing to train over 5,000 professionals on Snowflake solutions to help joint customers realize AI value faster. Already, Accenture and Snowflake are helping customers like Caterpillar, unlock the full value of their operational data. This collaboration is improving quality in manufacturing, providing timely insights for finance and helping teams share knowledge and solve complex challenges faster.

As you can see, this was a milestone quarter for Snowflake defined by exceptional advances in product innovation and incredible customer momentum. As we deepen our strategic partnerships with the world's leading cloud service providers, AI model developers, SaaS providers and global system integrators, we're unlocking new levels of performance, accessibility and AI-driven insight for our customers while expanding the value and impact of the Snowflake platform across industry. I'm incredibly proud of our team for their efficiency and discipline they continue to demonstrate across the business.

Our operational rhythm remains strong and as we invest strategically for long-term growth, we are building the foundation for sustained scale and high durable growth. To help lead us through this next phase, I am pleased to introduce Brian Robins as our new Chief Financial Officer. Brian brings extensive experience as a CFO across high-growth software companies and a deep understanding of scaling financial operations with discipline.

Brian, why don't you take us through some of the financial details.

Brian Robins
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Sridhar. It's a truly exciting time for me to be at Snowflake. In Q3, we delivered strong results across revenue, bookings and margins. Our product revenue grew 29% year-over-year, fueled by durable growth in our core business and continued expansion into data engineering and AI workloads. Together, these factors contributed to a stable net retention rate of 125%. Financial services and technology verticals led growth in Q3. We continue to see significant opportunity to expand within our existing customer base. Our Global 2000 customers now totaled 776 with each of these accounts spending, on average, $2.3 million on a trailing 12-month basis.

Many of these customers are still in the early stages of their Snowflake journey with ample room for further growth. Q3 was an excellent quarter for go-to-market execution. We achieved strong booking results, signing 4 9-figure deals. This represents a record number of large deals signed in a single quarter.

Our focus on new customer acquisition continues to show yield. As Sridhar mentioned, it was a record quarter for new customer wins, adding over 600 new customers. Our ability to expand with existing customers and bring new ones onto the platform, underscores the strength of our business model. Equally important, we continue to operate with financial discipline, delivering healthy margins as we scale. Q3 non-GAAP product gross margin was 75.9%. Non-GAAP operating margin expanded more than 450 basis points year-over-year to 11%, reflecting our continued focus on driving greater efficiency across the entire company.

As a reminder, we intentionally front-loaded our sales and marketing hiring in the year. Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow margin was 11%. In Q3, we used $233 million to repurchase 1 million shares at a weighted average price per share of $223.35. We still have $1.3 billion remaining on our original authorization for $4.5 billion through March of 2027. We ended the quarter with $4.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments.

Moving now to our outlook. For Q4, we expect product revenue between $1.195 billion and $1.2 billion, representing a 27% year-over-year growth. We expect non-GAAP operating margin of 7%. We are raising our FY '26 product revenue guidance. We now expect product revenue of approximately $4.446 billion, representing 28% year-over-year growth. We are reiterating our FY '26 margin targets. We expect non-GAAP product gross margin of 75%; non-GAAP operating margin of 9%; and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow margin of 25%.

Before moving to Q&A, I'd like to share my perspective on my first 60 days here at Snowflake. Three key takeaways have truly stood out: First and foremost, I've been incredibly impressed by the caliber and energy of the Snowflake team. There's a sense of winning energy in every meeting and profound pride in their daily work. Specifically, the depth of the bench within our finance organization is exceptionally strong and really supports our next phase of growth.

Second, I prioritize spending my initial weeks meeting with customers. The customers I spoke with were fanatical about Snowflake and the transformational impact our platform has had on their business. They are placed in the AI data cloud at the absolute center of their strategic initiatives, underscoring our essential role in their future.

Finally, the velocity of our product releases and innovation engine is world-class and consistently sets us apart. Snowflake sits at the intersection of a massive market opportunity and I could not be more excited to be part of scaling this phenomenal team and seizing the amazing growth ahead. As we look forward, my focus is on continuing to deliver efficient growth. I believe that continued alignment across our finance, go-to-market and product teams will enable us to balance growth with disciplined execution.

With that, I'll now pass the call to operator for Q&A.