Synopsys, Inc. (SNPS) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 10, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Tushar Jain
Sassine Ghazi - CEO, President & Director
Shelagh Glaser - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Jason Celino - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
James Schneider - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Wei Chia - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Sitikantha Panigrahi - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Vivek Arya - BofA Securities, Research Division
Joseph Vruwink - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Yu Shi - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Ruben Roy - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Synopsys Earnings Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2025. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Tushar Jain, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Tushar Jain

Good afternoon, everyone. With us today are Sassine Ghazi, President and CEO of Synopsys; and Shelagh Glaser, CFO. Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that during the course of this conference call, Synopsys will discuss forecasts, targets and other forward-looking statements regarding the company and its financial results. While these statements represent our best current judgment about future results and performance as of today, our actual results are subject to many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from what we expect.

In addition to any risks that we highlight during this call, important factors that may affect our future results are described in our most recent SEC reports and today's earnings press release. As shown in today's financial statements, all of Ansys revenue appears under the Ansys product group, including the Ansys semiconductor products.

In addition, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures during the discussion. Reconciliations to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and supplemental financial information can be found in the earnings press release, financial supplement and 8-K that we released earlier today. All of these items plus the most recent investor presentation are available on our website at www.synopsys.com. In addition, the prepared remarks will be posted on our website at the conclusion of the call.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Sassine Ghazi.

Sassine Ghazi
CEO, President & Director

Good afternoon. In 2025, we redefined Synopsys. With Ansys, Synopsys has transformed from an EDA leader to the leader in engineering solutions from silicon to systems. We achieved a record annual revenue of $7.05 billion and exited FY '25 with more than $11 billion in backlog. In Q4, we made strong progress executing the actions we identified to accelerate our strategy and drive long-term growth. More specifically, Ansys integration is well underway following completion of the planned divestitures of the Optical Solutions and PowerArtist businesses.

We've also initiated restructuring actions to drive efficiency and accelerate our committed synergies. And recently, we welcomed industry veteran, Mike Ellow, as our new Chief Revenue Officer. Fourth quarter revenue was in line with our guidance and EPS came in slightly ahead of guidance. Looking ahead to FY '26, we're guiding revenue of $9.61 billion at the midpoint, which factors the addition of Ansys, the completed divestitures and continued pragmatism around China.

Zooming out, we are operating amidst a multitrillion dollar AI infrastructure build-out, which is driving robust semiconductor demand and design starts for both specialized and general-purpose compute. We're also seeing stronger semiconductor demand in mobile and automotive while markets like industrial and China broadly remain subdued. AI will revolutionize every industry, demanding more compute performance while compounding engineering complexity. AI is driving chips to the atomic level while scaling from factory to edge to intelligent devices everywhere. As AI evolves from large language models to world models, engineering AI's future is not just a software challenge, it's a physics challenge. AI makes it both possible and imperative that we reengineer how engineering is done. Building complex AI-powered systems with the right performance, scale and efficiency requires new tools with multi-domain integration and new workflows to enable tight software and hardware codesign. That's why we're so excited about the combination of Synopsys and Ansys.

Ansys diversified our revenue, expanded our customer base and supercharged our opportunity. Together, we can bridge digital and physical design to help engineering teams across industries deliver better products faster and at lower cost. Our recently announced strategic partnership with NVIDIA further positions us to revolutionize design and engineering with AI and accelerated computing.

Now more than ever, Synopsys is mission critical to technology innovation. I'll briefly share some Q4 business highlights, and then Shelagh will provide the financial details. First, design automation. In Q4, we saw continued strong demand in hardware-assisted verification, driven by the increasing engineering complexity of AI and high-performance computing. Our HAV business ended a record year with 12 competitive wins in the fourth quarter.

We're also seeing continued demand for virtual prototyping among automotive and high-performance compute customers looking to accelerate their software development. Our leadership on advanced node, multi-die and AI design drove steady demand and growth in the fourth quarter. Last week's AWS Graviton5 launch is a great example. For years, we've collaborated with AWS to enable their custom silicon development and Synopsys tools, including VCS, PrimeTime, Fusion Compiler and IC Validator were critical to the design of this new custom chip with impressive gen-on-gen performance gains.

Importantly, Synopsys continues to pioneer AI-driven chip design. Nearly 5,000 active users among our Tier 1 semi customers are applying Synopsys.ai's assistive and creative capabilities to increase their engineering productivity. We also continue to advance AgentEngineer technology with partners like NVIDIA and Microsoft. Agentic AI capabilities promise to transform engineering workflows and unlock new business models.

The Ansys business continues to demonstrate robust growth across key industries, including industrial, where customers are using simulation to virtualize and optimize production, saving time and money. At Microsoft Ignite, we partnered with Microsoft, NVIDIA and Krones, a leader in packaging and bottling, to show what's possible. Using Ansys' accelerated physics solvers, NVIDIA Omniverse and Microsoft Azure, Krones built a digital twin of its bottle filling line to simulate and optimize operations in real time. A powerful example of how open ecosystems and cross-industry collaboration are redefining industrial innovation.

Turning to Design IP, which performed in line with our adjusted expectations. As interconnect standards evolve at an unprecedented pace, customers count on Synopsys' one-generation-ahead approach. We saw strong momentum in the quarter for PCIe 224 gig and UCIe IP. Notably, we secured 13 PCIe 7.0 design wins during FY '25 and established first-to-market position with our silicon-proven 224 gig IP and the new standard UALink. We also had 10 competitive wins in FY '25 for LPDDR6 and MRDIMM2 memory IP, which address 2 critical challenges in AI hardware, data throughput and power efficiency, while also improving reliability and security.

As stated last quarter, 2026 is a transitional year for the IP business, and we expect growth to be muted. However, given our leadership position in essential interconnect and foundation IP, our healthy sales pipeline and a renewed focus on the highest value opportunities, we are confident in our long-term mid-teens growth target.

To sum it up, we continue to transform and drive our strategy forward with a focus on technology leadership, operational excellence and financial discipline. Our priorities for FY '26 include advancing our technology leadership by continuing to pioneer the use of AI for engineering workloads and delivering our first Synopsys-Ansys joint solutions in the first half of 2026 and efficiently scaling to accelerate our strategy through disciplined cost and portfolio management, resulting in sustainable growth and margin expansion.

I want to thank our global team for their commitment and adaptability navigating an unprecedented year of transformation. Together, we've built the foundation for our future success. I'm also grateful to our shareholders, partners and customers for your continued support, and I look forward to seeing many of you at CES in January.


Now over to Shelagh.

Shelagh Glaser
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you. As Sassine said, 2025 was a transformational year, highlighted by the close of the Ansys acquisition, record revenue and strong backlog. Backlog came in at $11.4 billion, up from $10.1 billion last quarter, driven by strength in bookings across the business. We are acutely focusing on executing with financial discipline as we head into fiscal year 2026. We are well into delivering on our plan to improve efficiency with the previously announced workforce reductions. These decisions are never easy, and I'm thankful to the Synopsys team as we execute these actions and accelerate realizing our cost synergy commitment.

Let me provide some highlights of our fourth quarter and full year 2025. All comparisons are year-over-year unless otherwise noted. As a reminder, full year comparisons do not adjust for the 8 extra days in fiscal 2024. In 2025, we generated total revenue of $7.05 billion, up approximately 15%, which included $757 million of Ansys revenue. Q4 revenue was $2.25 billion, coming in at the high end of our guidance. Ansys Q4 revenue was $668 million. Geographically, China continued to be challenged, consistent with our commentary last quarter. China ended 2025 down 18%. Excluding Ansys, China was down 22% this year.

2025 total GAAP costs and expenses were $6.14 billion, and total non-GAAP costs and expenses were $4.42 billion, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 37.3%. Q4 GAAP costs and expenses were $2.13 billion and total non-GAAP costs and expenses were $1.43 billion, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 36.5%. Q4 and full year 2025 GAAP earnings per share were $2.39 and $8.07, respectively, which included the gain on the sales from the recent divestitures. Q4 and full year non-GAAP earnings per share were $2.90 and $12.91, respectively, ahead of our guidance on lower expenses.

Now on to our segments. Full year 2025 Design Automation segment revenue, which includes EDA, Ansys and other, was $5.3 billion, up 26%. Excluding Ansys, Design Automation revenue grew approximately 8% with steady growth in EDA software and a record year in hardware. Design Automation adjusted operating margin was approximately 42% in 2025. Full year Design IP segment revenue was $1.75 billion, down 8% due to the challenging second half with the headwinds highlighted last quarter. The IP business performed in line with our revised Q3 expectations. Design IP adjusted operating margin was 24% in 2025.

Moving to cash. Free cash flow for 2025 was approximately $1.35 billion and came in ahead of expectations, primarily due to the accelerated timing of collections. We ended the quarter with cash and short-term investments of $2.96 billion, which includes approximately $600 million in proceeds from the sale of the Optical Solutions Group and Ansys PowerArtist business. Total debt ended at $13.5 billion. We repaid approximately $850 million of our term loans in Q4 '25 and $900 million in November and plan to prepay the balance of $2.55 billion in the first half of 2026. We have incorporated this in our guidance that I will now discuss.

For 2026, the full year targets are total revenue of $9.56 billion to $9.66 billion. Within that, Ansys revenue contribution is expected to be $2.9 billion at the midpoint, growing double digits. Following the close of the Optical Solutions Group and PowerArtist divestiture in October, our fiscal year '26 guidance excludes revenue associated with those groups, resulting in an impact of approximately $110 million. We expect the first half/second half revenue split to be approximately 48% and 52%. We expect Ansys revenue to be strongest in Q1, given their historical strength in the December quarter driving the sequential revenue increase.

Total GAAP costs and expenses between $8.47 billion and $8.61 billion. Total non-GAAP costs and expenses between $5.69 billion and $5.75 billion, resulting in non-GAAP operating margin of 40.5% at the midpoint, up approximately 320 basis points versus 2025, driven by the inclusion of Ansys and cost synergy acceleration. We are adopting a normalized non-GAAP tax rate of 18% projected through 2028 to provide consistency across future periods. The 2-point increase is driven by geographic mix of earnings inclusive of Ansys and recent tax law changes. GAAP earnings of $2.49 to $2.90 per share. Non-GAAP earnings of $14.32 to $14.40 per share. We expect the first half/second half EPS split to be 46%-54% with the second half benefiting from the debt repayment.

Cash flow from operations of approximately $2.2 billion, up approximately $700 million year-on-year. The cash flow guide includes the impact of certain nonrecurring outflows, such as restructuring costs of approximately $225 million and $135 million of incremental cash taxes from recent divestitures. We expect CapEx of approximately $300 million, up $130 million versus 2025, driven by investments primarily in compute infrastructure, resulting in free cash flow of approximately $1.9 billion. Fully diluted shares outstanding are expected to be between 192 million and 194 million shares. This includes the impact of the recent share issuance to NVIDIA as part of our strategic partnership. With our plans to accelerate our term loan repayment, we expect the net impact to be accretive to EPS in fiscal year 2026, which is incorporated in the guidance.

Now to targets for the first quarter. Total revenue between $2.365 billion and $2.415 billion. Total GAAP costs and expenses between $2.165 billion and $2.23 billion. Total non-GAAP costs and expenses between $1.395 billion and $1.425 billion. GAAP earnings of $0.22 to $0.41 per share, and non-GAAP earnings of $3.52 to $3.58 per share. Our press release and financial supplement include additional targets and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations.

Before we take your questions, I'd like to reiterate our focus on driving sustainable growth and margin expansion through unmatched innovation and disciplined execution. 2025 was a transformational year that redefined Synopsys. In 2026, we will expand our position as a leader in engineering solutions from silicon to systems.


With that, I'll turn it over to the operator for questions.