SoFi Technologies, Inc. (SOFI) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 8:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Anthony Noto - CEO & Director
Chris Lapointe - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Dan Dolev - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
John Hecht - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Kyle Joseph - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Andrew Jeffrey - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Kyle Peterson - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Reginald Smith - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Peter Christiansen - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Moshe Orenbuch - TD Cowen, Research Division
Devin Ryan - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning or good afternoon. My name is Adam, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the SoFi Technologies Q3 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

With that, you may begin your conference.

Unknown Executive

Thank you, and good morning. Welcome to SoFi's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Joining me today to talk about our results and recent events are Anthony Noto, CEO; and Chris Lapointe, CFO. You can find the presentation accompanying our earnings release on the Investor Relations section of our website. Unless otherwise stated, we'll be referring to adjusted results for the third quarter of 2025 versus the third quarter of 2024.

Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations and forecasts and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to, our competitive advantage and strategy, macroeconomic conditions and outlook, future products and services and future business and financial performance. Our GAAP consolidated income statement and all reconciliations can be found in today's earnings release and the subsequent 10-Q filing, which will be made available next month.

Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are described in today's press release and our subsequent filings made with the SEC, including our upcoming Form 10-Q. Any forward-looking statements that we may make on this call are based on assumptions as of today. We undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Anthony.

Anthony Noto
CEO & Director

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. We had an excellent third quarter. Our one-stop-shop strategy is firing on all cylinders as we continue to deliver exceptional financial performance while also investing in our business to drive durable growth and strong returns over the long term. In fact, our focus on product innovation and brand building has never been stronger. There's more happening at SoFi today than at any other time in my 8 years with the company. We are stepping on the gas to accelerate the investment in our existing businesses and entering new areas, like crypto and blockchain, AI, SoFi Pay, providing fiat and crypto banking services and so much more. I'll discuss some of these efforts momentarily. But first, let me cover our key results for the quarter.

Starting with the drivers of our durable growth. We added a record 905,000 new members in Q3, increasing total members by 35% year-over-year, a slight acceleration to 12.6 million SoFi members. We also added a record 1.4 million new products, also representing an acceleration of growth to 36% year-over-year and over 18.6 million products. Cross-buy reached its highest level since 2022, with 40% of new products opened by existing SoFi members. Our cross-buy rate has increased in each of the past 4 quarters demonstrating the effectiveness of our one-stop-shop strategy. Our strong member and product growth powered our revenue growth in the third quarter. Adjusted net revenue was a record at $950 million, up 38% year-over-year.

Together, our Financial Services and Technology Platform segments generated revenue of $534 million, which is up 57% year-over-year and now represents 56% of total revenue. This is the first time these segments have generated more than $0.5 billion of quarterly revenue.

In our Lending segment, adjusted net revenue grew 23% year-over-year to $481 million, driven by strong originations in this segment of $6.6 billion, up 23% from the prior year. Combined with a very strong $3.4 billion of originations in the loan platform business, total originations reached a record of $9.9 billion for the third quarter. This is an increase of $1.2 billion from our prior record.

I'm also proud to report that total fee-based revenue across our business was also a quarterly record at $409 million, up 50% from the prior year, driven by strong performance from our loan platform business, origination fees, referral fees, interchange revenue and brokerage fee revenue. On an annualized basis, we're now generating over $1.6 billion of fee-based revenue, reflecting the deliberate diversification of our business towards more capital-light revenue streams.

In addition to delivering durable growth, we delivered strong returns and profitability. In the third quarter, adjusted EBITDA was a record at $277 million, up nearly 50% year-over-year. Our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 29%. Our incremental EBITDA margin was 35% as we continue to balance reinvesting in the business to deliver long-term growth and delivering profitability. Net income for the quarter was $139 million at a margin of 14%. Earnings per share were $0.11. Finally, our tangible book value ended the quarter at $7.2 billion, which includes the benefit from a successful opportunistic capital raise during the quarter. Over the past 2 years, we have more than doubled our tangible book value.

Our diversified business is uniquely built to deliver a winning combination of growth and returns. One way to measure this success is the Rule of 40 calculation, which is revenue growth plus EBITDA margin. We've beaten the Rule of 40 benchmark every quarter since going public, that's 17 straight quarters. Over that time, our average Rule of 40 score is 58, making us a top performer among fintechs and technology companies more broadly, and this quarter, we hit 67%. Despite these exceptionally strong results, I know that we are just getting started. The addressable markets across each of our products are massive in the United States, let alone in addition to international markets.

In 2026 and beyond, we will uniquely start to benefit from both of the technology super cycles in AI and blockchain where almost every other industry only benefits from one. And with nearly 13 million members, the unmatched capabilities of our technology and the business scale of $3.8 billion in annualized revenue and a $45 billion balance sheet, we have a rock solid foundation to build on. Given these dynamics, I've never been more optimistic about our prospects than I am today. This is why we are further accelerating our level of investment to make our existing products even better by providing the best speed, selection and experience to build new products to help our members get their money right and to further strengthen our trusted brand name.

Our investments will power our durable growth and drive stronger returns as we continue to scale. Let me now spend a moment discussing our brand building efforts, which are key to driving new members to SoFi and create a halo effect across our entire offering.

During the third quarter, we launched an exciting new partnership with the NFL's most valuable player, Josh Allen, to promote the most valuable product in financial services, SoFi Plus. Our partnership with Josh is resonating with NFL fans, driving a 35% increase in unaided brand awareness among that target audience. Along with our broader marketing efforts, we drove unaided brand awareness to an all-time high of 9.1% during the quarter, up from last quarter's record of 8.5% and more than 4x higher than it was when we went public.

Turning now to our product innovation. Last quarter, I spoke about how are in an unprecedented point in time with 2 technology super cycles taking place in crypto, blockchain and AI. These super cycles have the power to completely reinvent the future of financial services, and we have moved fast to take advantage of these opportunities. I'm pleased to report that this week, we launched our first payment product that leverages blockchain technology to provide fast, seamless, low cost and safe international payments with the launch of SoFi Pay. SoFi Pay gives members the ability to seamlessly send money in local fiat abroad by leveraging a layer 2 blockchain network and delivering local fiat into the account of the recipient. It's fully automated in the SoFi app at significantly faster speeds and lower costs compared to traditional services.

Members will first be able to send money to Mexico with planned stage rollouts in Europe and South America in the near future. The SoFi Pay wallet will over time integrate SoFi USD stable coin that we hope to launch in 2026. We also have plans to offer the SoFi Pay app natively in the international markets for foreign citizens to send money to the U.S. and many other international markets. This is another addition to our unprecedented money movement offering, which allows members to seamlessly send money through person-to-person payments with a phone number, e-mail address as well as Zelle, ACH, self-serve wires and now the ability to send money international with SoFi Pay.

I am also excited to share that this quarter, we'll be launching -- actually relaunching the ability to buy, sell and hold crypto assets, which will give members access to dozens of tokens directly in our SoFi app. Beyond offering the best selection, we will also be providing the best speed and convenience. Members can instantly fund buying cryptocurrencies from their FDIC-insured SoFi Money account, all within the integrated SoFi app.

Members will also have the ability to transfer the crypto assets to SoFi and benefit from our broad range of products that are seamlessly integrated with our SoFi North American bank. And because many of our members may be new to crypto investing, we will support them with the best content to help them understand crypto investing and provide them with a peace of mind that comes from working with a regulated bank.

But this is just the beginning of our ambitious crypto and blockchain product road map that will continue to come to life in 2026. I could not be more excited about the product road map and the multitude of use cases we have for our planned stablecoin, SoFi USD, and our ability to differentiate a stablecoin like no other company, given our unique bank license, technology capabilities, portfolio products and technology platform services.

Turning now to the other supercycle AI. We continue to test and implement a number of AI applications across our business. Behind the scenes, AI technology has been key to streamlining our operations to better serve our members. This has included using AI through higher-quality engagement and giving our frontline member service team AI-driven tools to more quickly identify and resolve member issues.

AI is also now being used to directly support members. Our AI support chat is helping members resolve questions in an efficient way, driving a noticeable impact on member satisfaction. It's currently integrated with our money and card products and will be rolled out across the entire SoFi platform this quarter.

We have also launched the AI-driven Cash Coach to qualifying members. Here's how it works. From the home screen, members see a button saying cash to optimize. By tapping that button, the Cash Coach will look across both their SoFi and external accounts to see where cash utilization is suboptimal and provide them with personalized financial suggestions. For example, if a member is earning just 2 lousy basis points of interest on deposits with a big bank, it may suggest moving that cash to a SoFi account earns 3.8%. Paying down a big bank credit card balance from a big bank that has a 25% interest rate.

Cash Coach is just the beginning. Next year, we will launch a more comprehensive SoFi Coach that incorporates insights across all areas of financial activity, not just cash, which will be able to help members understand how to spend less than they make and invest the rest by breaking down what they must do, what they should do and what they can do every day across their entire financial lives. For example, they could ask the SoFi Coach questions like, how has my credit score changed? How can I reduce my cost of debt? How much do I spend on subscriptions? How diversified is my portfolio? How is my investment compared to others my age?

Over time, SoFi Coach will be able to do even more, like provide investment and lending options to choose from, help set up and track goals and simplify processes like canceling subscriptions and optimizing reward points. We are so excited about how this AI-driven tool will help engage members and help them spend less than they make so they can invest the rest. Ultimately, SoFi Coach will supercharge our financial services productivity loop and lead to a deeper relationship that drives a higher lifetime value.

Turning now to product innovation within our segments, starting with the Financial Services segment and the loan platform business. LPB has been a game-changer for SoFi, diversifying our lending activity in a capital-light, low-risk way. It's a prime example of how we can leverage our unique tech customer acquisition and operations capabilities to build a differentiated platform at scale. During the third quarter, we originated $3.4 billion of loans through our loan platform business, an increase of over $900 million from just last quarter. On an annualized basis, after just 1 year, this business is now running at a pace of over $13 billion of originations and $660 million of high-margin, high-return fee-based revenue.

Importantly, we continue to increase the loan platform business near-term volume that is outside of our traditional credit box effectively monetizing more of the roughly $100 billion of loan applications that we were not able to meet each year. Looking ahead, the opportunity for this business remains significant and demand from our partners continues to increase. Recently, as some concerns have emerged within the private credit markets, we've actually seen our LPB partners lean in to do more with SoFi, not less, reflecting a flight to quality and durability through interest rate and economic cycles. We have worked hard over the last 8 years to develop unique skills in underwriting, marketing, pricing, insights and data. And as such, we are benefiting from this flight to quality.

Turning to invest. Earlier this month, we launched Level 1 Options, which has been consistently a requested feature by our members. Options are another way we are providing access to our members that they otherwise wouldn't have so they can build portfolios that align with their financial goals. As part of this rollout, we also provide educational resources explaining how options work, the risks involved and how to integrate them responsibly into a diversified investment strategy.

Beyond options, we're also expanding our unmatched selection in the third quarter by providing access to IPOs like StubHub, Klarna and Figma and by launching the SoFi Agentic AI ETF. During the quarter, we also improved our features to make our invest products more intuitive and engaging. For example, we launched 24/7 instant transfers between invest and money, and we launched embedded rollovers and an enhanced rollover tracker giving members full visibility and control over their 401(k) rollover process. In the fourth quarter, we'll be making a number of additional enhancements. We are very excited about the progress made to build an investment platform that provides their members with way more options than what they would typically have access to.

Turning now to SoFi Money, which has been a core part of our financial services productivity loop. In 3 years after acquiring our banking license, we have 6.3 million products and $33 billion of deposits. Our attractive APY is a compelling reason for members to make us their primary financial institution, but members also come to us for our best-in-class products and continued innovation. For example, we will soon be launching the SoFi Smart Card, a new card that brings together the best features to help our members spend, save and pay better. It will be part of our SoFi Plus offering, and it will serve as a platform for continuous innovation. The card will offer 5% back on food, our highest interest rate on deposits, credit builder capabilities, borrowing capabilities and so much more. This is yet another way in which we are pushing the limits on what is possible with banking products.

Turning now to our Lending segment. Lending is the most tenured core capability of SoFi and it's how our business got its start. Since that time, we have made significant progress strengthening both our member acquisition and our underwriting capabilities. For loans that we hold on our balance sheet, we focus exclusively on high prime and super prime borrowers with strong cash flow and FICO scores. In fact, the average FICO score of our personal loan borrower is 745, and our student loan borrower is 773, but we don't stop at credit scores.

We use tried and true underwriting techniques to assess each individual borrowers' cash flow and their ability to repay the loan. We are able to do this effectively at scale because of our innovative originations platform that leverages advanced technology and digitally-enabled processes. The result is excellent credit performance that continues today. In fact, during the third quarter, we saw our net charge-off rates improve, even as there has been moderate signs of stress showing up for some other companies. For both personal loans and student loans, net charge-offs were down more than 20 basis points in the third quarter.

We also have a strong track record of building great lending products that help our members create a better future. For example, our innovative personal loan product allows members to refinance observably expensive credit card debt held at other institutions to save their hard-earned money. No longer will overachievers be suckered into chasing rewards only to realize they are paying over 20% interest on unpaid principal balances while earning essentially no interest on that same bank's deposit account.

We've recently made this product even more attractive to our members by rolling out an interest-only period to raise awareness of the personal loan product and help ease the transition from making credit card payments to making personal loan payments. Similarly, in student lending, we have completely changed the game, becoming the preeminent company for refinancing student debt at more affordable rates.

Our student loan refinance product can reduce some member's interest rate by a couple of hundred basis points, which will have a meaningful impact with a $40,000 loan balance. In fact, we estimate that we will save our members over $100 million in interest expense just on the student loans we refinanced during the third quarter. This is why we've made our product even more attractive by rolling out a feature that allows for the gradual step-up in payments to help members find their footing. We look forward to helping even more members refinance their student loans as interest rates come down in the future.

Turning now to home lending, where we are seeing very strong results. In the midst of the higher rate environment, we built and launched a home equity loan product to help members take advantage of their equity that has been built up in their homes particularly over the last few years. In the third quarter, just 1 year after launch, we originated over $350 million of home equity loans, helping us set a record of $945 million of originations for all of home lending. In fact, Q4 will likely be the first quarter where we generate more revenue from home loans than from student loan refinance, which was our first product and the largest product prior to COVID.

At the same time, we are preparing for lower rates to further accelerate our home loans business in 2026. We've not only strengthened our operations, but we have also enhanced our product to make them very attractive to estimated 3 million members, who currently have mortgages elsewhere and to those who may be first-time homebuyers. We believe our offering will drive strong growth as the market opens up.

Turning to our Tech Platform segment. This business has been instrumental in our ability to innovate across the SoFi platform, and it's now allowing a broader range of companies to bring innovative programs that drive greater loyalty and engagement to their customers. In fact, today, we are incredibly excited to announce our newest partnership with one of the largest airlines in North America, Southwest Airlines, to power their Rapid Rewards debit card, which combines the convenience of debit payments, while earning points on everyday purchases. We have also signed on two major consumer brands, our largest yet, which will be announced in due course.

These partnerships are a reflection of the strong and growing demand for our market-leading technology to power embedded financial products at scale for some of the most well-known brands around the world. As you can see, it was an eventful third quarter at SoFi. And we are as energized as ever as we wrap up the year and head into 2026.

With that, let me now turn the call over to Chris.

Chris Lapointe
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Anthony. We've delivered another strong quarter as we continue to drive durable growth and strong returns on the way to delivering record revenue in our eighth consecutive profitable quarter. For the quarter, revenue grew 38% year-over-year to a record $950 million. Adjusted EBITDA was also a record at $277 million and a margin of 29%. Net income was $139 million at a margin of 14% and earnings per share was $0.11. Similar to the last 2 quarters, this included a small benefit related to a lower tax rate.

An important driver of our growth was the increased contribution from capital-light nonlending as well as fee-based revenue sources. Our nonlending businesses generated $534 million of revenue, up 57% year-over-year, and we also generated record fee-based revenue across all segments of $409 million, up 50% year-over-year.

Turning now to our segment performance. In terms of financial services, for the third quarter, net revenue was $420 million, up 76% year-over-year. Contribution profit was $226 million, up nearly 2.3x from last year. Contribution margin was 54%, up from 42% last year. Net interest income for the segment was $204 million, up 32% year-over-year, which was primarily driven by growth in member deposits. Noninterest income grew nearly 2.6x to $216 million for the quarter, which equates to over $860 million in high-quality fee-based income on an annualized basis. Importantly, improved monetization continues its strong contribution to revenue growth.

Financial services revenue per product surpassed $100 for the first time, reaching a record $104 in the third quarter. That's up over 28% year-over-year, and we see continued upside as newer products mature. In Q3, our loan platform business generated $168 million in adjusted net revenue, up 29% from just last quarter. Of this, $165 million was driven by the $3.4 billion of personal loans originated on behalf of third parties as well as referrals. Additionally, LPB generated $3 million from servicing cash flows, which is recorded in our lending segment. The growth opportunity for this business continues to be very strong. Beyond our LPB revenue, we continue to see healthy growth in interchange, up 55% year-over-year, driven by close to $20 billion in total annualized spend in the quarter across money and credit card.

Shifting to our tech platform. For the third quarter, we delivered net revenue of $115 million, up 12% year-over-year. Contribution profit was $32 million at a contribution margin of 28%. Revenue growth was driven by continued monetization of existing clients, along with new deals signed in new client segments.

Turning now to our Lending segment. For the third quarter, adjusted net revenue was $481 million, up 23% from the same period last year. Contribution profit was $262 million with a 54% contribution margin. These strong results were primarily driven by growth in net interest income, which increased 35% year-over-year to $428 million. During the quarter, we had record total loan originations of $9.9 billion, up 57% year-over-year. Personal loan originations were a record at $7.5 billion, of which $3.4 billion was originated on behalf of third parties through LPB. In total, personal loan originations were up 53% year-over-year. Student loan originations were $1.5 billion, up 58% from the same period last year. And home loan originations were a record $945 million, a year-over-year increase of nearly 2x.

Capital markets activity was very strong in the third quarter. We sold and transferred through our loan platform business, a record $4.6 billion of personal, home and student loans. In terms of personal loans, we closed $175 million of sales in the whole loan form at a blended execution of 106.4%. All deals had similar structures to other recent personal loan sales with cash proceeds at or near par, and the majority of the premium consisting of contractual servicing fees that are capitalized. These sales included a small loss share provision that is above our base assumption of losses and immaterial relative to the exposure we would have had otherwise if we held on to the loans.

Additionally, we sold $90 million of late-stage delinquent personal loans. By selling these loans, we're able to generate positive incremental value over time versus selling after they charge-off, both from our improved recovery capabilities and by maintaining servicing.

In terms of home loan sales, we closed $585 million at a blended execution of 102.9%. And in terms of student loan sales, we closed $377 million at a blended execution of 105.9%. In addition to our loan sales, we executed a $466 million securitization of loans originated through our loan platform business. This channel provides our partners with meaningful liquidity to support their ongoing investment in the loan platform business. The transaction priced at industry-leading cost of funds levels with a weighted average spread of 98 basis points.

Turning to credit performance. The health of our consumer remains strong and our credit continues to improve. Our personal loan borrowers have a weighted average income of $157,000 and a weighted average FICO score of 745, while our student loan borrowers also have a weighted average income of $157,000 with a weighted average FICO score of 773.

For personal loans, the annualized charge-off rate declined by more than 20 basis points to 2.6% from 2.83% in the prior quarter. Had we not sold any late-stage delinquencies, we estimate that including recoveries between 90 and 120 days delinquent, we would have had an all-in annualized net charge-off rate for personal loans of approximately 4.2% versus 4.5% last quarter. The on-balance sheet 90-day delinquency rate was 43 basis points, consistent with the prior quarter. For student loans, the annualized charge-off rate also declined more than 20 basis points to 69 basis points from 94 basis points in the prior quarter. The on-balance sheet 90-day delinquency rate was 14 basis points, consistent with the prior quarter.

The data continues to support our 7% to 8% net cumulative loss assumption for personal loans in line with our underwriting tolerance, although we continue to trend below these levels. Our recent vintages originated from Q4 2022 to Q4 2024 have net cumulative losses of 4.4% with 39% unpaid principal balance remaining. This is well below the 6.08% observed at the same point in time for the 2017 vintage, the last vintage that approached our 7% to 8% tolerance. The gap between the newer cohort curve and the 2017 cohort curve widened by a more favorable 29 basis points after a widening improvement of 19 basis points in Q2.

Additionally, looking at our Q1 2020 through Q2 2025 originations, 60% of principal has already been paid down with 6.7% in net cumulative losses. Therefore, for life-of-loan losses on this entire cohort of loans to reach 8%, the charge-off rate on the remaining 40% of unpaid principal would need to be approximately 10%. This would be well above past levels, further underscoring our confidence in achieving loss rates below our 8% tolerance.

Turning to our fair value marks and key assumptions. As a reminder, we mark our loans at fair value each quarter, which considers a number of factors, including the weighted average coupon, the constant default rate, the conditional prepayment rate and the discount rate comprised of benchmark rates and spreads. At the end of the third quarter, our personal loans were marked at 105.7%, in line with the prior quarter. This was primarily a function of a lower benchmark rate, which was mostly offset by higher prepayments and a modest change to the weighted average coupon as well as a modest change to the annual default rate, which was driven by loan vintage seasoning, not changes to the individual loan loss assumptions.

At the end of the third quarter, our student loans were also marked at 105.7%, down 9 basis points from the prior quarter. This was a function of a modest decrease in the weighted average coupon, partially offset by a lower benchmark rate.

Turning to our balance sheet. In July, we raised $1.7 billion of new capital in the form of common equity. This opportunistic raise significantly increased our capital levels and allowed us to reduce our higher cost debt by $1.2 billion, making our balance sheet even stronger and giving us great flexibility to pursue growth opportunities. In the third quarter, including this new capital, total assets grew by $4.2 billion. This was driven by $2.7 billion of loan growth and approximately $1.2 billion of growth in cash, cash equivalents and investment securities. Total company-wide cash at quarter end was $3.7 billion.

On the liability side, total deposits grew by $3.4 billion to $32.9 billion primarily driven by growth in member deposits. Net interest margin was 5.84% for the quarter, down 2 basis points sequentially. This included a 7 basis point decrease in average yields as we saw a modest mix shift from personal loans to home and student loans and a 3 basis point increase in cost of funds, which was mostly offset by strong growth in interest-earning assets. We continue to expect healthy net interest margins above 5% for the foreseeable future.

In terms of our regulatory capital ratios, we remain very well capitalized. Our total capital ratio of 20.2% at quarter end is well above the regulatory minimum of 10.5% as well as our additional internal stress buffer. Tangible book value grew $1.9 billion sequentially to $7.2 billion, including the benefit from the new capital raised. Intangible book value per share at quarter end is $5.97, up from $4.08 a year ago, a 46% increase.

Let me now finish by providing our revised outlook for 2025. As we head into fourth quarter, for the full year 2025, we now expect to add approximately 3.5 million members, which represents approximately 34% year-over-year growth, above our prior guidance of 3 million members and 30% growth. We now expect adjusted net revenue of approximately $3.54 billion, above our prior guidance of $3.375 billion. This equates to year-over-year growth of approximately 36%, an increase from our prior guide of 30%. We now expect an adjusted EBITDA of approximately $1.035 billion, above our prior guidance of $960 million. This represents a 29% margin.

We now expect adjusted net income of approximately $455 million, above our prior guidance of $370 million. And adjusted EPS of approximately $0.37, above our prior guidance of $0.31. This equates to fourth quarter adjusted EPS of approximately $0.12, which assumes a Q4 tax rate of approximately 10%. We now expect growth in tangible book value of approximately $2.5 billion for the year, above our prior guidance of around $640 million.

We've had a great year thus far and look forward to a strong finish. Let's now begin the Q&A.