STERIS plc (STE) Q2 2026 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Julie Winter - Vice President of Investor Relations & Corporate Communications
Karen Burton - Senior VP, CFO & Chief Accounting Officer
Daniel Carestio - President, CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Brett Fishbin - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Patrick Wood - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jason Bednar - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Michael Matson - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Michael Polark - Wolfe Research, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and thank you for standing by. My name is Bella, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to STERIS plc 2Q Fiscal 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Winter, Vice President of Investor Relations. You may begin.

Julie Winter
Vice President of Investor Relations & Corporate Communications

Thank you, Bella, and good morning, everyone. Speaking on today's call this morning will be Karen Burton, Senior Vice President and CFO; and Dan Carestio, our President and CEO. And I do have a few words of caution before we open for comments.

This webcast contains time-sensitive information that is accurate only as of today. Any redistribution, retransmission or rebroadcast of this call without the express written consent of STERIS is strictly prohibited.

Some of the statements made during this review are or may be considered forward-looking statements. Many important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those risk factors described in STERIS' securities filings. The company does not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments. STERIS' SEC filings are available through the company and on our website.

In addition, on today's call, non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted operating income, constant currency organic revenue growth and free cash flow will be used. Additional information regarding these measures, including definitions, is available in our press release as well as reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures are presented during this call with the intent of providing greater transparency to supplemental financial information used by management and the Board of Directors in their financial analysis and operational decision-making.

With those cautions, I will hand the call over to Karen.

Karen Burton
Senior VP, CFO & Chief Accounting Officer

Thank you, Julie, and good morning, everyone. It is my pleasure to be with you this morning to review the highlights of our second quarter performance from continuing operations.

For the second quarter, total as-reported revenue grew 10%. Constant currency organic revenue grew 9% in the quarter, driven by volume as well as 210 basis points of price. Gross margin for the quarter increased 60 basis points compared with the prior year to 44.3%. Positive price and productivity, primarily driven by volume, more than offset increased inflation and tariff costs.

EBIT margin increased 90 basis points to 23.1% of revenue compared with the second quarter last year, mainly driven by operating expense leverage. The adjusted effective tax rate in the quarter was 24.5%. The year-over-year increase was driven primarily by changes in discrete item adjustments and geographic mix.

Net income from continuing operations in the quarter was $244.5 million. Adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $2.47, a 15% increase over the prior year.

Capital expenditures for the first half of fiscal 2026 totaled $180.1 million and depreciation and amortization totaled $241.1 million. We ended the quarter with $1.9 billion in total debt. Gross to EBITDA at quarter end was approximately 1.2x.

Free cash flow for the first half of fiscal 2026 was $527.7 million, a very strong start to the year, driven by the increase in earnings and improvements in working capital.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Dan for his remarks.

Daniel Carestio
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Karen, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to hear more about our second quarter and our increased outlook.

Karen covered the quarter at a high level, so I will add some commentary on the segments. Starting with Healthcare. Constant currency organic revenue grew 9% in the second quarter, with growth across all categories. Service continued its streak of outperformance, growing 13% in the second quarter. Consumables also performed well with growth of 10%.

Healthcare capital equipment revenue increased 4% in the quarter with backlog of over $400 million. Orders were up 3% year-to-date and down slightly in the second quarter. EBIT margins for Healthcare in the quarter increased 100 basis points to 25.1%, with volume, pricing, positive productivity and restructuring program benefits offsetting tariffs and inflation.

Turning to AST. Constant currency organic revenue grew 7% for the quarter with 13% growth in services, offset by anticipated declines in capital equipment revenue. Services benefited from stable medical device volumes, bioprocessing demand and currency. EBIT margins for AST were 45.3%, up 250 basis points from second quarter last year as additional volume, pricing and less capital equipment in the mix were able to more than offset increases in labor and energy.

Constant currency organic revenue increased 12% for Life Sciences in the quarter, driven by a return of capital equipment shipments with growth of 39%. Service revenues grew 9% and consumables increased 7%. Capital equipment backlog was up over 50% to $114 million. Margins declined 70 basis points as volume and price were more than offset by tariffs and inflation.

From an earnings perspective, we grew the bottom line 15% in the quarter to $2.47 per diluted share. Included in that number is approximately $12 million of pretax tariff impact, which primarily impacted our Healthcare segment.

Turning to our outlook for fiscal 2026. As noted in the press release, based on our first half outperformance and expectations for the balance of the year, we are increasing most elements of our outlook. We now anticipate approximately 8% to 9% as reported revenue growth, which reflects about 100 basis points of favorable currency, a significantly lower impact than we anticipated last quarter.

Making up for the shift in currency impact, constant currency organic revenue growth is now expected to be 7% to 8%, an increase of 100 basis points from our prior outlook. This improvement was driven by our first half outperformance. We now expect all 3 segments to grow 7% to 8% on a constant currency organic basis for the year.

For AST, we now expect services to grow 9% to 10%, which will be offset by anticipated declines in capital equipment, particularly versus the tough comparisons in the fourth quarter.

We are also increasing our earnings outlook with a new range of $10.15 to $10.30. For your modeling purposes, we now expect EBIT margins to improve 10 to 20 basis points in fiscal 2026. This will be partially offset by a 50 basis point increase in our anticipated effective tax rate of approximately 24%.

We are also increasing our outlook for free cash flow by $30 million to $850 million for fiscal 2026. CapEx remains unchanged at about $375 million. We are pleased with our strong start to the year, and we are confident in our ability to meet these revised expectations.

That concludes our prepared remarks for the call. Julie, would you please give the instructions so that we can begin the Q&A.

Julie Winter
Vice President of Investor Relations & Corporate Communications

Thank you, Karen and Dan, for your comments. Bella, can you please give the instructions for Q&A, and we can get started.