Steel Dynamics, Inc. (STLD) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 26, 2026 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

David Lipschitz - Investor Relations Director
Mark Millett - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Theresa Wagler - Executive VP, CFO & Company Secretary
Barry Schneider - President & COO

Conference Call Participants

Katja Jancic - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Lawson Winder - BofA Securities, Research Division
Tristan Gresser - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Timna Tanners - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
William Peterson - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Philip Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
John Tumazos - John Tumazos Very Independent Research, LLC
Carlos de Alba - Morgan Stanley, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Steel Dynamics Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call.

[Operator Instructions] Please be advised this call is being recorded today, January 26, 2026, and your participation implies consent to our recording this call. If you do not agree to these terms, please disconnect.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. David Lipschitz, Director, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

David Lipschitz
Investor Relations Director

Thank you, Ali. Good morning, and welcome to Steel Dynamics Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded and will be available on our website for replay later today.

Leading today's call are Mark Millett, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Steel Dynamics; Theresa Wagler, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Barry Schneider, President and Chief Operating Officer. The other members of our senior leadership team are joining us on the call individually.

Some of today's statements, which speak only as of this date, may be forward-looking and predictive, typically preceded by believe, expect, anticipate or words of similar meaning. They are intended to be protected by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 should actual results turn out differently. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties related to integrating or starting up new assets, the aluminum industry, the use of estimates and assumptions in connection with anticipated project returns and our steel, metal recycling and fabrication businesses as well as to general business and economic conditions.

Examples of these are described in the related press release as well as in our annually filed SEC Form 10-K under the headings Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors, found on the Internet at www.sec.gov and if applicable, in any later SEC Form 10-Q. You will also find any referenced non-GAAP financial measures reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the press release issued this morning entitled Steel Dynamics Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Results.

And now I'm pleased to turn the call over to Mark.

Mark Millett
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

Super. Thank you, David, and good morning, everyone. I hope you're all a little warmer than we are in the Midwest and Indiana here in Fort Wayne. But nonetheless, we appreciate you taking the time to join us for our fourth quarter and full year 2025 earnings call. As you have seen, our teams achieved a solid 2025 financial and operational performance in what was a challenging market environment through the year. This is a testament to our diversification, the scale and circular manufacturing business model that we have.

The highlights were record annual steel shipments of 13.7 million tons, cash from operations of $1.4 billion and adjusted EBITDA of $2.2 billion. And most importantly, we had another strong year in terms of safety. At Sinton, consistent operational execution has been achieved. The downstream value-add coating and prepaint product quality has matured.

At Aluminum Dynamics, we have produced and shipped finished aluminum flat-rolled products for the industrial and beverage can markets as well as hot band for the automotive sector. Although there's still work ahead, the team has strong momentum, positioning us well as commissioning continues and operations ramp.

As always, I'm extremely proud of the entire Steel Dynamics team. They are the foundation of our company, and there's no doubt their passion, innovative spirit and commitment drive our success, and they inspire me each and every day. I am very -- also very excited actually to welcome our new team members joining us through the final acquisition of New Process Steel, which occurred this past December. We are certainly excited to grow with you.

As I mentioned, the most gratifying achievement was having a strong safety performance. Our world-class safety culture continues to evolve and our team's dedication to take control of safety philosophy is extraordinary. I'm continually inspired by the commitment they have for one another. They consider themselves family and challenge the status quo each and every day. That said, we will never be satisfied, though, until we achieve a 0 incident environment.

Before I transition the call to Theresa and Barry, I'd like to provide some perspectives arising from the press release and investor presentation we posted on Monday, January 5, related to the proposed BlueScope transaction. During the past 5 years, we have focused on strategic organic investments in steel and aluminum products. The associated additional free cash flow generation is meaningful and as you know, very close at hand. We are well positioned with substantial liquidity, low leverage and significant expected free cash flow generation to support the continuation of our consistent, disciplined and balanced capital allocation strategy.

Our criteria for growth has not changed. We grow to differentiate our product offerings, supply chains and to create value for all our stakeholders. Our long-standing track record of best-in-class return on invested capital and other return metrics is testament to our disciplined approach to both greenfield and acquisitional growth. We have a well-deserved reputation for excellent execution, clear long-term strategy, a business model that enables strong cash flow generation through market cycles and a culture second to none.

Our actions are intentional and strategic, not opportunistic. We pay fair value for good businesses that enhance value for all constituents. In December 2025, we submitted an offer to purchase BlueScope together with our Australian partner, SGH. The offer proposed SGH acquire 100% of BlueScope on an all-cash basis with a subsequent on sale of the U.S. assets to Steel Dynamics, providing all BlueScope shareholders with a tax-effective cash realization opportunity. The proposal was the most recent in a series of constructive approaches to provide BlueScope shareholders the opportunity to unlock the trapped value of the North American businesses and to find the right home for their businesses in Australia, New Zealand and Asia. That home is clearly with SGH, given their track record of value creation across the industrial space, which closely mirrors the focus on delivery, capital allocation and free cash flow generation of SDI.

The offer is compelling, reflecting the value of BlueScope's business appropriately and is significantly higher than the value its shares have ever realized in over 15 years. The deal construct is simple and straightforward. We requested a customary but short 30-day due diligence period, which provides the opportunity for an effective and speedy process. However, our offer was rejected by the BlueScope Board without any engagement. And the commentary within BlueScope's subsequent public releases regarding the proposal has to be seen as very disappointing. The premise for the Board's rejection was principally based on insufficient value that they provided shareholders with no reasonable executable alternative strategy that would provide the same certainty of similar shareholder return.

Our cash offer is certain, immediate and tax effective with no financing contingency. It eliminates the significant execution risk and hopes that financial improvement might come from improved market spreads and currency exchange rates that are far from predictable. We agree that the North American assets and their operating teams are of quality as we know them well. In fact, for many years, our steel operators have frequently worked closely with the BlueScope teams, exchanging best operating practices and safety initiatives. The BlueScope North American assets, teams and senior leadership are not the problem. Rather, BlueScope's long-term financial and share price underperformance are the result of conservative incomplete growth strategies.

As a case in point, North Star BlueScope and the recently acquired coating businesses are a severe structural disadvantages. The steel mill is essentially a stranded asset and does not have the physical structural capability to provide the necessary value-add products required to supply the geographically disparate coil coating operations. They are missing essential equipment at a minimum, cold rolling and galvanizing. The required investment today could be as much as AUD 1.5 billion to AUD 2 billion, not to mention the years of waiting on equipment and the construction risks.

In February 2024, BlueScope publicly discussed an associated plan to invest at that time, USD 1.2 billion, about AUD 1.8 billion today for a greenfield project to achieve a similar outcome. Yet they officially deferred the project a year later in February 2025 due to market uncertainty and the pivot to acquisitions. Recently, BlueScope wrote down the asset value of nearly AUD 0.5 billion associated with its recent 2022 acquisition of the North American Coatings business, noting that the business was not achieving expectations. More recently, rather than investing for long-term growth, the Board announced a onetime tax ineffective nonrecurring unfranked special dividend of AUD 453 million, providing no recurring long-term benefit to shareholders. We would suggest the North American BlueScope strategy isn't working.

Steel Dynamics operational interactions with the BlueScope organization has spanned over 20 years. Discussions with senior leadership have explored various value-creating concepts along the way. We have both enjoyed considerable business interaction through the sale of scrap, coated coil, joist and construction products to the BlueScope business, and we purchased substantial steel from North Star BlueScope. Suffice it to say, we have a unique and clearly qualified perspective on BlueScope's North American strategy and business model, along with the associated earnings capability of their assets. And our respective leadership teams have long understood that industrial logic of combining our businesses.

Our proposal to purchase BlueScope along with SGH is not an opportunistic foray to acquire assets on the cheap. It represents a long-standing desire to maximize shareholder value for all stakeholders. Our investment premise is straightforward. SDI is the logical owner of the North American assets as we can unlock the latent value. Currently, North Star BlueScope is a stranded commodity-centric single-site steel mill. It will be pressured by additional hot-rolled coil production capacity coming online in the U.S. within the next 24 months. Product diversification is critical for it to sustain earnings power and an imperative for the desired value creation within their acquired coating business. These challenges are self-evident from the recent massive asset write-down that I mentioned earlier. The scale, supply chains and business model of SDI would provide immediate resolution.

Additionally, BlueScope has publicly emphasized the monetization of industrial and rural land located in remote regions of Australia and New Zealand. We believe there are likely significant zoning and environmental challenges, not to mention development timelines spanning what could be decades. BlueScope's plan for earnings uplift will take considerable time to realize with substantial execution and market risk.

So for us, Steel Dynamics, our pipeline for growth investments is robust. Our track record of delivering profitable growth is without comparison. The acquisition of BlueScope North America makes sense for Steel Dynamics strategically but we will be led by our focus on value creation and will be guided by rationale and not hope, and we will remain disciplined as always.

So with all that said, and given the public nature of how this has evolved, we won't be making any further comments or taking questions related to the BlueScope transaction after our commentary. And we thank you for appreciating and respecting that request.

So with all that said, I love to talk about the exciting things going on within Steel Dynamics. So Theresa?

Theresa Wagler
Executive VP, CFO & Company Secretary

Thank you, Mark. Happy New Year, everyone. Thanks for being on the call. I am going to be brief with my comments today. In 2025, we achieved operating income of $1.5 billion and net income of $1.2 billion or $7.99 per diluted share. Cash flow from operations was $1.4 billion and liquidity remained strong at over $2.2 billion as we continued strong shareholder returns and near the completion of a significant organic growth phase with the associated cash flow close at hand.

For the fourth quarter specifically, our net income was $266 million or $1.82 per diluted share. As some of you noted, our effective tax rate benefited the quarter by approximately $15 million due to state adjustments and other benefits related to certain reserve items. Fourth quarter 2025 revenue were $4.4 billion and operating income was $310 million, lower than sequential third quarter results driven by lower realized steel pricing and lower volume.

For the full year 2025, operating income from our steel operations was $1.4 billion versus prior year income of $1.6 billion. Record steel shipments, as Mark mentioned, of 13.7 million tons were more than offset by compressed flat-rolled steel metal margins. In the fourth quarter, our steel operations generated operating income of $322 million, sequentially lower driven by seasonally lower shipments combined with planned maintenance outages at our 3 flat-rolled steel mills. Barry will provide more context regarding the outages in a moment.

For those of you tracking the flat-rolled shipments for your models, fourth quarter hot-rolled shipments were 942,000 tons, cold-rolled 122,000 tons and coated products were 1,395,000 tons. For the full year 2025 operating income from our metals recycling operations, it was $97 million, almost 30% higher than 2024 results based on improved pricing and volume and gains the team continues to achieve in operating efficiencies. For the fourth quarter, operating income actually declined about $13 million from a sequential basis based on lower pricing and seasonally lower shipments.

Our metals recycling platform provides a significant competitive advantage for our steel, aluminum and copper operations using innovative new separation technologies and growing supplier relationships to support their customers and our growing internal needs.

For the full year 2025 earnings from our steel fabrication platform, they were $407 million, representing a solid year, yet lower than the prior year earnings as average realized pricing and volume declined. However, pricing and metal margins actually moderately expanded in the fourth quarter as our steel fabrication team achieved operating income of $91 million.

Our steel joist and deck demand remains solid with good order activity. December was one of the strongest activity months in 2025, setting up 2026 very well.

We're incredibly excited for our Aluminum team's operational and commercial progress. Mark will provide specifics later on, on this call. But as planned, the team was EBITDA positive in December based on 10,000 metric tons of shipments and improving cost structures, a true achievement as there is still ongoing construction and equipment commissioning in various parts of the operations.

For the full year and fourth quarter 2025, we generated cash flow from operations of $1.4 billion and $273 million, respectively. Of note, there was a structural increase in working capital related to our new aluminum investments, which reduced full year cash flow by approximately $450 million and fourth quarter cash flow by approximately $155 million. Our cash generation is consistently strong based on our differentiated circular business model and highly variable low-cost structure. At the end of the year, we had liquidity of over $2.2 billion.

On November 21, 2025, we did issue $800 million in investment-grade unsecured notes comprised of $650 million of 4% notes due 2028 and $150 million of 5.25% notes due in 2035. The net proceeds from the notes were used to redeem our $400 million notes due 2026 and for other general corporate purposes.

During 2025, we invested $948 million in capital investments. We currently believe capital investments for 2026 will be in the range of $600 million. Some of the aluminum CapEx did shift from the fourth quarter into the first quarter just from a timing perspective.

We also completed the purchase of the remaining 55% equity interest in New Process Steel effective December 1, as Mark mentioned, and I also want to welcome the teams. In 2025, we purchased $900 million of our common stock or over 4% of our outstanding shares and $240 million during the fourth quarter. At December 31, we still had $801 million remaining authorized for share repurchases. These actions reflect the strength of our capital foundation and consistently strong cash flow generation capability and the continued optimism and confidence in our future.

Our capital allocation strategy prioritizes high-return growth with shareholder distributions comprised of a base positive dividend profile that's complemented with a variable share repurchase program, while we remain dedicated to maintaining our investment-grade credit designation.

Our free cash flow profile has fundamentally changed over the last 5 years from an annual average of $540 million per year for the 5-year period 2011 to 2015 to $2.2 billion for the most recent 5-year period. And if you exclude the recent investments in Sinton and Aluminum, it actually would be $3.2 billion per year. And there's still more coming. We've invested over $5 billion in 3 primary organic growth investments. These projects have estimated through-cycle annual EBITDA capability of approximately $1.4 billion.

We have placed ourselves in a position of strength to have a sustainable capital foundation that provides the opportunity for meaningful strategic growth and strong shareholder returns, while maintaining investment-grade metrics. We are squarely positioned for the continuation of sustainable optimized long-term value creation.

Thank you. Barry?

Barry Schneider
President & COO

Thank you, Theresa. Our steel fabrication operations performed well throughout 2025, achieving strong earnings. At the end of the year, our steel joist and deck order backlog was solid with December being the third strongest bookings month of the year. The backlog extends through the first half of 2026. We continue to have high expectations for this business this year due to the positive customer sentiment and quoting activity, moderating interest rates, continued manufacturing onshoring and public funding for infrastructure and other fixed asset investment programs. The uplift from this macro environment could be considerable.

Our steel fabrication platform provides meaningful volume support for our steel mills, critical in softer demand environments, allowing for higher through-cycle steel mill utilization compared to our peers. It also helps mitigate the financial risk of lower steel prices. Our metals recycling operations also performed well this year, increasing operating income by almost 30%. Congratulations to the team.

The North American geographic footprint of our metals recycling platform provides a strategic competitive advantage for our steel mills and for our scrap generating customers. In particular, our Mexican locations competitively advantage our Columbus and Sinton raw material positions. They also strategically support aluminum scrap procurement for our flat-rolled aluminum investments. Our metals recycling team is also partnering even more closely with both our steel and aluminum teams to expand scrap separation capabilities through process and technology solutions. This will help mitigate potential prime ferrous scrap supply issues in the future. It will also provide us with a significant advantage to materially increase the recycled content for our aluminum flat rolled products and increase our earnings opportunities.

Steel team had another solid year with record shipments of 13.7 million tons. During 2025, the domestic steel industry operated at an estimated production utilization rate of 77%, while our steel mills operated at 86%. We consistently operate at higher utilization due to our value-added steel product diversification, our comprehensive differentiated customer supply chain solutions and the support of our internal manufacturing businesses. This higher through-cycle utilization of our steel mills is a key competitive advantage, supporting our strong and growing cash generation capability and best-in-class financial metrics.

Operationally, we did have some downtime in the fourth quarter related to planned outages at our 3 flat-rolled steel mills. There were some additional delays, which inhibited production by 140,000 to 150,000 tons. Regarding the flat-rolled steel markets, prices have recently improved, supported by stable demand and lower imports. Lead times have extended and customers remain optimistic about the outlook. Long product steel markets were a highlight throughout 2025, and we expect another solid year as demand and pricing remains strong, particularly in structural steel and railroad rail.

Regarding the steel market environment, North American automotive production estimates for 2026 are expected to be similar to 2025. Automotive dealer inventories continue to remain below historical norms and actually declined further in December. Our specific automotive customer base has not only remained stable but have provided opportunities for growth. We have become a supplier of choice for many U.S.-based European and Asian automotive producers due in part to our lower carbon content capabilities.

Nonresidential construction should benefit from ongoing onshoring activity, recently announced domestic manufacturing projects and continued infrastructure spending. In the energy sector, oil and gas remained steady with solar continuing to be very strong. Overall, we remain optimistic concerning demand for our diversified value-added steel products in the coming year.

With that, back to you, Mark.

Mark Millett
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

Super. Well, thank you, Theresa. Thank you, Barry. I think everyone can appreciate sustaining such positive results don't just happen. They result from the strategies implemented and executed by the teams over time. We have invested strategically to provide scale, product and market diversification, unique customer supply chains and linked operating platforms to optimize market opportunities throughout market cycles. When combined with our performance-driven culture, we consistently achieve at the highest levels. We optimize cash generation, allowing for a consistent and balanced cash allocation strategy that has delivered strong shareholder returns. And our disciplined investment approach continues to support a strong and growing through-cycle cash generation profile, while maintaining the highest return on invested capital among our industrial peers.

In aluminum, we just grew more and more excited each and every day as we watch the aluminum teams execute, moving from construction through commissioning to serving the customers with high-quality products. I believe we enjoy a unique market environment. There is a significant domestic supply deficit of over 1.4 million tons for aluminum sheet, and this deficit is forecasted to grow along with demand. In 2024, that deficit was supplied through high-cost imports, which are now even higher cost as the tariffs increased from 10% in '24 to the current 50% level.

We've seen that there's clear alignment with many of our SDI's core competencies. Our construction capabilities have once again been proven both Columbus and San Luis Potosi are state-of-the-art facilities. We are using our deep operational know-how in combination with the technical expertise of aluminum industry experts that have joined us. And our proven performance-driven culture will drive higher efficiency and low-cost operations as compared to our peers.

We believe we have an advantaged commercial position. 2/3 of our existing carbon flat-rolled steel customers also consume and process aluminum flat rolled sheet. Our growth in the automotive sector will complement our existing steel position and provide customer material optionality. The beverage can market provides countercyclical market diversification and a more stable earnings profile within the aluminum space will further enhance the consistency of our through-cycle cash generation.

Our raw material platform will facilitate higher recycled content. We're the largest North American metals recycler, which includes aluminum. And that team has done an incredible job successfully developing new separation technologies, allowing us to have both more access to usable aluminum scrap and at a lower cost. Production to date, even in its early stages, is already confirming our expected earnings differentiation. Through cycle EBITDA expectation remains clearly at $650 million to $700 million for the mill itself, plus another $40 million to $50 million for the Omni platform. As we spoke in the past, the 4 key areas of advantage being labor efficiency, the higher recycled content, the higher yield through the process and optimized logistics, all of which are driven by our low-cost culture. This strategic investment is a cost-effective and high-return growth opportunity, providing SDI with additional countercyclical diversification, further stabilizing and growing our cash generation capabilities.

As the industry already knows, the 650,000 metric ton project is no longer a vision. It's clearly here and clearly having a positive impact in the industry. The customer base is excited to have a new market entrant that is known to be innovative, customer-focused and responsive to their needs. For us, business relationships are long term, founded on trust with a continuous goal of creating mutual value. And that's not just simply financial value but new supply chain solutions, new products, better quality and better service, and we are seeing to react surprising speed.

Many customers have seen that with recent supply side challenges in the aluminum flat-rolled products market, the timing of our ramp-up has been fortuitous, allowing us to help the market, while accelerating our material qualifications. Start-ups have the challenges, and I would like to thank our customers for their patience as we fine-tune our operations. To date, those customers have been very responsive, and thank you for that. We have received certification from many customers for industrial and can sheet finished products and for automotive aluminum hot band. This accelerated certification should allow us to shift our product mix to a higher-margin mix in 2026, reaching optimization sometime in 2027 as compared to our earlier expectation of 2028.

Three of the 4 melt cast houses are fully commissioned and have produced all 3,000, 5,000 and 6,000 series ingots for industrial, can sheet and automotive sectors for rolling mill commissioning, product development and commercial shipments. And the team there is doing an absolutely phenomenal job actually as they are through the whole mill, I guess. The hot mill is completely commissioning, having ran 303, 5052 industrial, 3104 can sheet, 5754 and 5182 automotive-grade material. The cold reversing mill is successfully producing 3003, 5052 and 3104. The first tandem mill is in commissioning and starting to produce. The second tandem cold mill and the first of 2 CASH lines are on schedule to be operating before the end of the first quarter '26.

The team is incredibly excited with the earlier-than-anticipated product certifications for sure. It's a testament to the phenomenal talent we have embedded in the team, and there's so much great energy and momentum throughout the mill. We're extremely excited by the physical production and quality capability of the mill this early in the start-up and are focused on achieving optimal consistency. We ended the year shipping 10,000 tons in December, which is about 20% of our capability -- eventual capability and are confident we will be exiting 2026 at a rate approaching 90% capacity.

We're impassioned by our current and future growth plans as they will continue to drive the high-return growth momentum we have consistently demonstrated over the years. The earnings growth of these new projects is compelling. The capital spending for Sinton, the 4 value-add lines and aluminum dynamics is largely spent with a projected future through-cycle EBITDA contribution of over $1.4 billion. I'm excited as investors to recognize the power and the consistency of our strong cash generation, combined with our disciplined high-return capital allocation strategy.

It is our belief that the steel industry has undergone a paradigm shift in recent years, supported by a pervasive sense of mercantilism that will provide a level playing field through continued and appropriate trade mechanism. Fixed asset investment will continue to grow, which directly correlates with increased metal products demand. Continued reshoring, AI and cloud computing will support nonresidential construction. And decarbonization will materially steepen the global cost curve, providing Steel Dynamics with a huge competitive advantage to gain market share and increase metal spreads. Our highly diversified value product capabilities provide us with a very unique advantage to leverage this evolving metals business environment and will amplify our relative earnings capability.

In closing, as I always say and always believe our people are our foundation. I thank them, some 14,000 of our teammates. And when you include the partners in life, their spouses and their children, there are 63,000 people in the SDI family. And I thank each and every one of them for their passion and their dedication. And we're committed to them. And I remind those listening today that safety for yourselves and your families and each other is the highest priority.

I'd be remiss not to thank our loyal customers, many of whom have supported us since our inception. These partnerships are based on trust on doing what we say we will do and creating new solutions to enhance the value proposition. And our new aluminum partners will experience the same. And as I said earlier, I appreciate their patience as we work together to get Columbus up and running.

And finally, to our suppliers and service providers who we value and trust, and thank you. We can't do what we do without you. We look forward to creating new opportunities for all of us today and the years ahead.

And with that, Ali, we would love to take questions.

