STMicroelectronics N.V. (STM) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 3:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Jerome Ramel - Executive VP of Corporate Development & Integrated External Communication
Jean-Marc Chery - Chairman of the Managing Board, President & CEO
Lorenzo Grandi - President & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Francois-Xavier Bouvignies - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Andrew Gardiner - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Joshua Buchalter - TD Cowen, Research Division
Stephane Houri - ODDO BHF Corporate & Markets, Research Division
Domenico Ghilotti - Equita SIM S.p.A., Research Division
Sandeep Deshpande - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Sébastien Sztabowicz - Kepler Cheuvreux, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the STMicroelectronics Full Year 2025 Earnings Release Conference Call and Live Webcast. I am Sandra, the Chorus Call operator. [Operator Instructions] The conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] The conference must not be recorded for publication or broadcast.

At this time, it is my pleasure to hand over to Jerome Ramel, EVP, Corporate Development and Integrated External Communications. Please go ahead, sir.

Jerome Ramel
Executive VP of Corporate Development & Integrated External Communication

Thank you, Maura, and thank you, everyone, for joining our fourth quarter and full year 2025 financial results call. Hosting the call today is Jean-Marc Chery, ST President and Chief Executive Officer. Joining Jean-Marc on the call today are Lorenzo Grandi, President and CFO; and Marco Cassis, President, Analog, Power and Discrete, MEMS and Sensor Group and Head of ST Microelectronics Strategy, System Research and Application and Innovation Office.

This live webcast and presentation materials can be accessed on ST Investor Relations website. A replay will be available shortly after the conclusion of this call.

This call will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause ST results to differ materially from management's expectations and plans. We encourage you to review the safe harbor statement contained in the press release that was issued with the results this morning and also in ST's most recent regulatory filings for a full description of these risk factors. Also to ensure all participants have an opportunity to ask questions during the Q&A session, please limit yourself to one question and a brief follow-up.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Jean-Marc Chery, ST President and CEO.

Jean-Marc Chery
Chairman of the Managing Board, President & CEO

Thank you, Jerome. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining ST for our Q4 and full year 2025 earnings conference call.

I will start with an overview of the fourth quarter and the full year 2025, including business dynamics, and I will hand over to Lorenzo for the detailed financial overview. I will then comment on the outlook and conclude before answering your questions.

So, starting with Q4. We delivered revenues at $3.33 billion, above the midpoint of our business outlook range, driven by higher revenues in Personal Electronics and to a lesser extent in Communication Equipment and Computer Peripheral and Industrial, while Automotive was below expectations. Gross margin of 35.2% was also above the midpoint of our business outlook range, mainly due to better product mix. Excluding impairment, restructuring charges and other related phaseout costs, diluted earnings per share was $0.11, including certain negative one-time tax expenses impact of $0.18 per share.

Q4 revenue marked the return to year-over-year growth. During the quarter, we further worked down inventories, both in our balance sheet and in distribution, and we generated a positive $257 million free cash flow. Looking at the full year 2025. Net revenues decreased 11.1% to $11.8 billion, mainly driven by a strong decrease in Automotive and to a lesser extent, in Industrial, while Personal Electronics and Communication Equipment and Computer Peripheral both grew. Gross margin was 33.9%, down from 39.3% in full year 2024. Excluding impairment, restructuring charges and other related phaseout costs, diluted earnings per share was $0.53. We invested $1.79 billion in net CapEx, while generating free cash flow of $265 million.

Let's now discuss our business dynamics during Q4. In Automotive, during the quarter, we grew revenues 3% sequentially. Year-over-year revenues declined, but with continued improvement in the trend. Automotive design momentum progressed with design wins across both electric and traditional vehicle domains for applications such as onboard chargers, DC-DC converters, powertrain and vehicle control electronics. These included design wins for power semiconductors, smart power devices, automotive microcontrollers, analog and sensors. These awards supported by engagements with various OEMs and Tier 1 ecosystems, strengthen our position as a key supplier to the automotive industry.

Regarding the acquisition of NXP's MEMS sensor business, the transaction we announced in July is still expected to close in H1 2026.

In Industrial, revenues were better than expected, showing increases of 5% sequentially and 5% year-over-year. Importantly, inventories in distribution further decreased and are now normalizing. In Industrial, our portfolio of microcontrollers, sensing technologies and analog and power devices is strongly positioned to support industrial transformation trends and the need of physical AI.

During the quarter, we saw design wins across industrial automation and robotics, building automation, power systems, health care and home appliances. In November, we held our STM32 Summit where we announced several key innovations, including the first microcontroller built on the 18-nanometer process, a next-generation wireless microcontrollers and an updated suite of edge AI software tools.

Personal Electronics, fourth quarter revenues were above our expectations, down 2% sequentially, reflecting the seasonality of our engaged customer programs. During the quarter, we strengthened our position in mobile platform and connected consumer devices, both with our engaged customer programs as well as our open market offering for devices such as our sensors, secure solutions and power management products.

Revenues for communication equipment and computer peripherals were up 23% sequentially, better than expected. In AI and data center infrastructure, we continue to reinforce our position supporting the increasing demand for higher power density and energy efficiency. During the quarter, we secured multiple design wins for silicon and silicon carbide-based power solutions, supporting next-generation AI compute architectures.

We also continue to work with customers to bring our silicon photonics technology to the market. The strong momentum in optical connectivity technologies for data centers also contributed to a significant rise in demand for our high-performance microcontroller used in pluggable optics.

The low-earth orbit satellite business based on our BiCMOS and panel level packaging technologies continued to progress during the quarter with shipments ramping to our second largest customer.

Moving to sustainability. We remain on track for our key 2027 commitments. Carbon neutrality in all direct and indirect emissions from Scope 1 and 2 and focusing on product transportation, business travel and employee commuting emissions for Scope 3 and 100% renewable energy sourcing. A major milestone this year was the launch of Singapore's largest industrial district cooling system at our Ang Mo Kio facilities in Q4. We also continue to maintain our strong presence in the major sustainability indices where we were honored to be recognized in the Time world's most sustainable companies list for the second consecutive year.

Now over to Lorenzo, who will present our key financial figures.

Lorenzo Grandi
President & CFO

Thank you, Jean-Marc, and good morning, everyone. Let's have a detailed review of the fourth quarter. Starting with revenues on a year-over-year basis by reportable segment. Analog products, MEMS and sensor grew 7.5%, mainly due to Imaging. Power and Discrete products decreased by 31.6%. Embedded Processing revenues were up 1% to 2% with higher revenues in general purpose and automotive microcontrollers, offsetting declines in connected security and custom processing products. RF and optical communication grew 22.9%.

By end market, communication equipment and computer peripheral and personal electronics both grew by about 17%. Industrial grew by about 5%, while automotive decreased by about 15%. Year-over-year, sales increased 0.6% to OEM and decreased 0.7% to distribution. On a sequential basis, Power and Discrete was the only segment to decrease by 3.9%. All the other segments grew, led by RF and optical communication up 30.5%, while Embedded Processing and Analog products, MEMS and sensor were up, respectively, 3.9% and 1.1%.

By end market, sequential growth was led by communication equipment and computer peripherals, up 23%. Industrial was up 5% and automotive was up 3%, while Personal electronics declined 2%.

Turning now to profitability. Gross profit in the fourth quarter was $1.17 billion, decreasing 6.5% on a year-over-year basis. Gross margin was 35.2%, decreasing 250 basis points year-over-year, mainly due to lower manufacturing efficiencies and to a lesser extent, negative currency effect and lower level of capacity reservation fees. On a sequential basis, gross margin improved by 200 basis points. Q4 gross margin included about 50 basis points of negative impact resulting from a nonrecurring cost related to our manufacturing reshipping program. In the next few quarters, we expect a similar negative impact on gross margin from the just mentioned nonrecurring costs.

Total net operating expenses, excluding restructuring, amounted to $906 million in the fourth quarter, slightly increasing year-over-year due to unfavorable currency effect. They were slightly better than expected, reflecting our continued cost discipline and the initial benefit from our cost savings initiative. For the first quarter 2026, we expect net OpEx to stand at about $860 million, decreasing quarter-on-quarter. As a reminder, these amounts are net of other income and expenses and exclude the restructuring.

In the fourth quarter, we reported $125 million operating income, which included $141 million for impairment, restructuring charges and other related phaseout costs. These charges are related to the execution of the previously announced company-wide program to reshape our manufacturing footprint and resize our global cost base. Excluding the nonrecurring items, Q4 non-U.S. GAAP operating margin was 8%, with Analog product MEMS and Sensor at 16.2%, Power and Discrete negative 30.2% Embedded Processing at 19.2% and RF and Optical Communication at 23.4%.

Fourth quarter 2025 net loss was $30 million, including certain onetime noncash income tax expenses of $163 million compared to a net income of $341 million in the year ago quarter. Diluted earnings per share was negative $0.03 compared to $0.37 of last year. Excluding the previously mentioned nonrecurring item related to the impairment, restructuring charges and other related phaseout costs, non-U.S. GAAP net income stood at $100 million and non-U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share stood at $0.11, including certain negative onetime tax expenses impacting of $0.8 per share.

Looking now at our full year 2025 financial performance. Net revenue decreased 11.1% to $11.8 billion. In terms of revenue by end market, Automotive represents about 39% of our total 2025 revenues. Personal Electronics about 25%; Industrial, about 21% and Communication and Computer Peripheral about 15%. By customer channel, sales to OEMs and distribution represent 72% and 28%, respectively, of total revenue in 2025. By region of customer region, 43% of our 2025 revenues were from the Americas, 31% from Asia Pacific and 26% from EMEA. Gross margin decreased to 33.9% for 2025 compared to 39.3% for 2024, mainly due to lower manufacturing efficiencies and to a lesser extent, the price and mix, lower level of capacity reservation fees, negative currency effect and higher unused capacity charges.

Operating income stood at $175 million compared to $1.68 billion in 2024. Excluding $376 million for impairment, restructuring charges and other related phaseout costs, non-U.S. GAAP operating margin was 4.7%. On a reported basis, net income was $166 million and EPS was $0.18. On a non-U.S. GAAP basis, they stood respectively at $486 million and $0.53. Net cash from operating activities totaled $2.15 billion compared to $2.97 billion in 2024. Net CapEx expenditure was $1.79 billion in 2025, in line with our revised expectation and lower than the $2.5 billion of 2024. Free cash flow was $265 million positive in 2025 compared to the $288 million positive of the previous year.

Inventory at the end of the year was $3.14 billion compared to the $3.17 billion at the end of the third quarter and $2.79 billion one year ago.

Days sales of inventory at quarter end were 130 days, slightly better than our expectation compared to the 135 days for the previous quarter and 122 days in the year ago quarter. Cash dividends paid to stockholders in 2025 totaled $321 million. In addition, during 2025, ST executed share buybacks totaling $367 million.

ST maintained its financial strength with a net financial position that remains solid at $2.79 billion as at end of December 2025, reflecting total liquidity of $4.92 billion and total financial debt of $2.13 billion.

Now back to Jean-Marc, who will comment on our outlook.

Jean-Marc Chery
Chairman of the Managing Board, President & CEO

Thank you, Lorenzo. Now let's move to our business outlook for Q1 2026. We are expecting Q1 '26 revenues at $3.04 billion, a decrease of 8.7% sequentially, plus or minus 350 basis points. We expect our gross margin to be about 33.7%, plus or minus 200 basis points, including about 220 basis points of unused capacity charges. This business outlook does not include any impact for potential further changes to global tariffs compared to the current situation.

In terms of net CapEx for 2026, we plan to invest about $2.2 billion to support capacity addition for selected growth drivers like those for cloud optical interconnect and our manufacturing reshaping plan.

To conclude, 2025 turned out to be a challenging year for the end market we serve, characterized by continued inventory correction in automotive and industrial, in particular, the first part of the year. The second half was better with gradual improvement of the revenue trend and a return to a year-on-year growth in the fourth quarter. We are entering '26 with a better visibility than entering '25 with the inventory correction in distribution progressively improving.

Beyond the evidence of a cycle recovery, ST will benefit from the following company-specific growth drivers. In automotive, we see solid momentum in our engaged customer programs in ADAS, where we expect to grow this year and in the coming years. In silicon carbide power devices, following a significant contraction in 2025, we anticipate a return to revenue growth in 2026 with revenues projected to recover to 2024 levels by 2027. In sensors, we see strong demand, both in MEMS and imaging sensor and our planned acquisition of NXP MEMS business will strengthen our leading position across the automotive and industrial segment.

In industrial, in general purpose MCUs, building on market share gains 2025 and a road map of new product launch for 2026, we are on track to return to our historical market share of about 23% by 2027. In Personal Electronics, where we continue to see strong momentum in our engaged customer programs in sensors and analog, we should keep on benefiting from increased silicon content in 2026 and beyond. In communication equipment, computer peripheral, in data centers, including cloud, optical interconnect and power and analog for AI servers and data centers, with the current market dynamic, we believe we can deliver $1 billion revenue before 2030 with already USD 500 million in 2026. In low-earth orbit satellites, we are expanding our customer base, and we anticipate continued revenue growth as low earth orbit constellation projects expand globally and penetrate new applications such as direct-to-cell constellation.

Lastly, ST is uniquely positioned to address human wind robotics through our broad portfolio, spanning MCUs, MEMS, optical sensors, GNSS and power management. We are already generating revenues through engagements with major OEMs, and we estimate our current addressable bill of material at about $600 per system.

Thank you, and we are now ready to answer your questions.

