Constellation Brands, Inc. (STZ) Q3 2026 Earnings Call January 8, 2026 10:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Blair Veenema - Vice President of Investor Relations
Garth Hankinson - Executive VP & CFO
William Newlands - President, CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Bonnie Herzog - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Nadine Sarwat - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Lauren Lieberman - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Robert Ottenstein - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Dara Mohsenian - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Drew Levine - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Gerald Pascarelli - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Robert Moskow - TD Cowen, Research Division
Filippo Falorni - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Peter Galbo - BofA Securities, Research Division
William Kirk - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Michael Lavery - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Constellation Brands Q3 Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Blair Veenema, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Blair.

Blair Veenema
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Kevin. Good morning, all, and welcome to Constellation Brands' Q3 Fiscal '26 Conference Call. I'm here this morning with Bill Newlands, our CEO; and Garth Hankinson, our CFO.

We trust you had the opportunity to review the news release, CEO and CFO commentary and accompanying quarterly slides made available in the Investors section of our company's website, www.cbrands.com.

On that note, as a reminder, reconciliations between the most directly comparable GAAP measure and any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call are included in the news release and website. And we encourage you to also refer to the news release and Constellation's SEC filings for risk factors that may impact forward-looking statements made on this call.

Before turning the call over to Bill and Garth, please keep in mind that, as usual, answers provided today will be referencing comparable results unless otherwise specified. Lastly, in line with prior quarters, I would ask that you limit yourselves to 1 question per person, which will help us to end our call on time. Thanks in advance, and over to your questions.

