Synchrony Financial (SYF) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Kathryn Miller - Senior Vice President & Director of Investor Relations
Brian Doubles - President, CEO & Director
Brian Wenzel - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Sanjay Sakhrani - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Terry Ma - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Moshe Orenbuch - TD Cowen, Research Division
Mihir Bhatia - BofA Securities, Research Division
L. Erika Penala - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Richard Shane - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Robert Wildhack - Autonomous Research US LP
Jeffrey Adelson - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Brian Foran - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Donald Fandetti - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to the Synchrony Financial Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Please refer to the company's Investor Relations website for access to their earnings materials. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I will now turn the call over to Kathryn Miller, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Kathryn Miller
Senior Vice President & Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our quarterly earnings conference call. In addition to today's press release, we have provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call. The press release, detailed financial schedules and presentation are available on our website, synchronyfinancial.com. This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.

Before we get started, I wanted to remind you that our comments today will include forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty, and actual results could differ materially. We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings, which are available on our website.

During the call, we will refer to non-GAAP financial measures in discussing the company's performance. You can find a reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our materials for today's call.

Finally, Synchrony Financial is not responsible for and does not edit or guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties. The only authorized webcasts are located on our website.

On the call this morning are Brian Doubles, Synchrony's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Wenzel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

I will now turn the call over to Brian Doubles.

Brian Doubles
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Kathryn. Good morning, everyone. Synchrony ended the year with a strong fourth quarter performance, highlighted by net earnings of $751 million or $2.04 per diluted share, which included a $0.14 restructuring charge related to a voluntary employee early retirement program, a return on average assets of 2.5% and a return on tangible common equity of 21.8%.

During the quarter, we connected nearly 70 million customers to our partners and generated more than $49 billion of purchase volume, a fourth quarter record and a year-over-year increase of 3% as average active account and spend trends continue to sequentially strengthen across almost all of our platforms. Purchase volume across our digital platform increased 6%, driven by higher spend per account and strong customer response to enhanced product offerings and refreshed value propositions.

Diversified & Value purchase volume grew 4%, primarily reflecting the impact of partner expansion this year. Purchase volume in Health & Wellness also grew 4%, reflecting growth in Pet & Audiology, partially offset by lower spend in Cosmetic. In addition, higher spend per account exceeded the impact of lower average active accounts.

Purchase volume in our Lifestyle platform increased 3%, reflecting higher broad-based spend per account, partially offset by lower average active accounts. And purchase volume in Home & Auto was down 2%, generally reflecting selective spend in home improvement and lower average active accounts, partially offset by strong growth in spend per account.

Synchrony's dual and co-branded cards accounted for 50% of our total purchase volume in the fourth quarter and increased 16% versus last year, driven by product upgrades, higher broad-based spend and expanded utility across these card programs. We also continue to see year-over-year improvement in the mix of discretionary spend within our out-of-partner purchase volume with strength coming from categories like electronics, entertainment and travel. In addition, both average transaction values and average transaction frequency continue to grow across the portfolio. Average transaction values rose about 30 basis points compared to last year, reflecting growth from non-prime and super prime customers. Average transaction frequency increased across all credit cohorts, up about 3.7% versus last year.

Collectively, these strengthening core trends across our portfolio are a reflection of Synchrony's focus and disciplined execution throughout the year. We delivered strong credit results while also advancing our key strategic priorities to enhance the value and utility of our financing solutions, broaden our reach and deliver more powerful experiences for our customers and partners alike. And as a result, Synchrony added more than 20 million new accounts, drove engagement with nearly 70 million existing customers and generated more than $182 billion of sales for our partners, merchants and providers in 2025. This is the kind of proven success that has established Synchrony as a trusted partner.

In the fourth quarter, we added or renewed more than 25 partners, including Bob's Discount Furniture, RH and Polaris. We're excited to announce our exclusive multiyear agreement with Bob's Discount Furniture to offer short- and long-term promotional financing options to customers at more than 200 Bob's locations. This partnership is expected to launch midyear and strengthen Synchrony's leadership in the home furnishings industry with partnerships across more than half of Furniture Today's top 100 retailers.

In addition, our renewed partnership with Polaris, a leading manufacturer of off-road vehicles, builds on a nearly 2-decade-long relationship of collaboration to provide financing for vehicles, parts, accessories, gear as well as vehicle service and protection products through customized promotional financing and loan options. Throughout the past year, Synchrony expanded our portfolio across both national and local businesses, bringing our total added or renewed partners to more than 75, including 2 of our top 5 partners and 7 of our top 20. Approximately 97% of our total interest and fees from our top 25 partners are renewed through 2028, and our top 5 partners are renewed through 2030 and beyond, reflecting the deep trust our partners have in Synchrony and our ability to deliver for their businesses.

Synchrony also continued to diversify our programs, products and markets over the past year, providing greater flexibility and broader access for our customers and partners as their needs evolve and priority shift. We entered into more than 10 merchant and practice management platform partnerships, including Weave, one of the largest patient relationship management software providers in the Health & Wellness space that supports over 35,000 small- and medium-sized practices across dental, cosmetic, vision and vet.

Together, we're focused on eliminating the friction between patient communication and payment experiences and empowering customers with access and financial flexibility, so we're excited to develop a best-in-class patient engagement and payment solution that will seamlessly integrate CareCredit across critical moments that matter in the patient journey, from appointment scheduling and reminders to bill pay.

Synchrony now partners with over 50 merchant and practice management platforms like Weave in both the Health & Wellness and Home & Auto markets so that we can enable seamless access to our financing solutions suite while converting more sales for hundreds of thousands of small and mid-sized businesses that utilize these technology platforms to operate their businesses.

Similarly, our acquisition of Versatile is expected to accelerate our multisource financing strategy, reaching and empowering more customers with smarter financing options across online, in-store and mobile points of sale while driving seamless integrations, higher approval rates and detailed reporting to drive sales across home, auto and elective medical merchants and providers.

And our continued launch of new products across our portfolio is delivering enhanced utility and value for our customers, while driving loyalty and sales for our partners. For example, Synchrony Pay Later is now offered through more than 6,200 merchants. And thus far, our data shows that when we offer a Pay Later and revolving products together, we experienced an at least 10% average increase in sales, pointing to the expansive purchase power Synchrony can deliver through our multiproduct strategy.

And in today's world, where purchases are often decided and financing approved before checkout, Synchrony is increasingly wherever our customer is, on the product page, in search results, in digital shopping carts and even in their inbox, providing effortless access to flexible financing options. The investments we've been making are driving these and other innovations at Synchrony, as we seek to expand and deepen the role we play across the consumer finance and payments ecosystem.

Over the last year, we have enriched the experiences we deliver while empowering our customers with more dynamic access and choice through the combination of Synchrony's Marketplace, which features our AI search capability called [ Joy Hunt ] and Synchrony's website and native app. Together, the enhancements we made across these channels contributed to an 18% increase in total visits and 17% more in sales in 2025.

Our digital wallet strategy also continued to accelerate, having more than doubled the number of unique provisioned accounts and digital wallet sales compared to last year. This growth also supported a 400 basis point gain in our dual and co-branded cards wallet penetration rate, which should enhance the stickiness of these products and provide natural tailwinds to Synchrony's mobile wallet share as we continue to invest in this strategy and aim to ensure that our products are anywhere our customers want them to be.

So no matter how our customers come to Synchrony, with the hundreds of thousands of partners, providers in small and midsized businesses we serve, our digital ecosystem is designed to connect them with the compelling value propositions, broad utility and flexible payment structures that best align with their needs in that moment.

By almost any account, we believe the ways in which Synchrony has executed throughout 2025 have positioned us well for the future. We have invested in our products and digital capabilities to drive greater reach, deeper penetration and broader utility, and we have built enduring relationships with a diverse range of partners who are primed to deliver strong risk-adjusted growth as conditions allow.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Brian to discuss our financial performance in greater detail.

Brian Wenzel
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. Synchrony's fourth quarter and full year financial performance delivered strong risk-adjusted returns amidst evolving market conditions. The combination of our underwriting discipline and the efficacy of our prior credit actions enabled the return of our full year net charge-off rate to within our long-term target range of 5.5% to 6%. We achieved strong new account and purchase volume growth across the portfolio despite maintaining our net credit restricted position.

And despite the associated effects of an elevated payment rate, ending loan receivables grew across 3 of our 5 platforms, and net interest income increased, reflecting the building impact of our product, pricing and policy changes, or PPPCs, and the reduction of our funding liabilities cost. The combination of these trends drove enhanced program performance, which was shared through our RSAs, maintaining economic alignment with our partners, enabling them to reinvest in our mutual customers and drive loyalty amidst a backdrop of more discerning spend behavior.

To summarize Synchrony's fourth quarter results, we generated net earnings of $751 million or $2.04 per diluted share, which included the impact of a $0.14 restructuring charge related to a voluntary employee early retirement program, a return on average assets of 2.5%, a return on tangible common equity of 21.8% and a 9% increase in tangible book value per share.

And for the full year, Synchrony delivered net earnings of $3.6 billion or $9.28 per diluted share, a return on average assets of 3.0% and a return on tangible common equity of 25.8%. We look forward to building on this momentum across our business in both the short and medium term.

Focusing on our fourth quarter results in more detail. We generated $49 billion of purchase volume, a fourth quarter record and a 3% year-over-year increase despite the ongoing effects of net credit restrictive actions we took between mid-2023 and early 2024 and continued selectivity in customer spend behavior.

Ending loan receivables decreased 1% to $104 billion in the fourth quarter, reflecting the combination of higher payment rates, lower average active accounts and the effects of lower purchase volume in the first half of this year. The payment rate increased by approximately 45 basis points versus last year to 16.3% and was approximately 155 basis points above the pre-pandemic fourth quarter average.

Net revenue of $3.8 billion was flat versus last year, as higher net interest income was offset by higher RSAs driven by program performance. Net interest income increased 4% to $4.8 billion, primarily driven by higher loan receivables yield and the impact of our PPPCs and lower interest-bearing liabilities cost associated with lower benchmark rates, partially offset by lower liquidity portfolio yield.

Our fourth quarter net interest margin increased 82 basis points versus last year to 15.83%, reflecting 3 key drivers: one, a 53 basis point increase in our loan receivables yield, which contributed approximately 44 basis points to our net interest margin. This increase was primarily driven by the impacts of our PPPCs, partially offset by lower benchmark rates and lower assessed late fees; two, a 51 basis point decline in our total interest-bearing liabilities cost versus last year, which contributed approximately 41 basis points to our net interest margin; and three, a 46 basis point increase in the mix of loan receivables as a percent of interest-earning assets, which increased our net interest margin by approximately 8 basis points. These improvements were partially offset by a 73 basis point reduction in our liquidity portfolio yield, which reduced our net interest margin by 11 basis points. The decline generally reflected the impact of lower benchmark rates.

Moving on. RSAs of $1.1 billion or 4.30% of average loan receivables in the fourth quarter and increased $175 million versus the prior year, primarily reflecting program performance, which included lower net charge-offs and the impact of our PPPCs. Provision for credit losses decreased $119 million to $1.4 billion, driven by a $294 million decrease in net charge-offs and partially offset by a reserve build of $76 million versus a $100 million release in the prior year. Other expense increased 10% to $1.4 billion, generally reflecting higher employee cost and technology investments. Employee costs increased, primarily due to a $67 million restructuring charge associated with a voluntary employee early retirement program as well as a shift in headcount mix.

The fourth quarter efficiency ratio was 36.9%, approximately 360 basis points higher than last year. This resulted from higher overall expenses and the impact of higher RSA on net revenue as program performance improved. Excluding the impacts of the restructuring charge, the fourth quarter efficiency ratio would have been approximately 180 basis points lower.

Shifting focus to our key credit trends on Slide 9, which shows that our 30-plus and 90-plus delinquency rates as well as our net charge-off rates are all below our historical average for the fourth quarters of 2017 to 2019. At quarter end, our 30-plus delinquency rate was 4.49%, a decrease of 21 basis points from 4.70% in the prior year. Our 90-plus delinquency rate was 2.17%, a decrease of 23 basis points from 2.40% in the prior year. Our net charge-off rate was 5.37% in the fourth quarter, a decrease of 108 basis points from 6.45% in the prior year.

When evaluating our credit performance, our portfolio delinquency and net charge-off trends reflect both the efficacy of our credit actions and the power of our disciplined underwriting and credit management strategies. These trends reinforce our confidence in our portfolio's credit positioning as we move forward and provide a strong foundation for us to execute our business strategy.

Finally, our allowance for credit losses as a percent of loan receivables was 10.06%, which decreased approximately 29 basis points from 10.35% in the third quarter and declined 38 basis points from the 10.44% in the fourth quarter of 2024.

Turning to Slide 10. Synchrony's funding, capital and liquidity continue to provide a strong foundation for our business as we exited 2025. Synchrony grew our direct deposits by $2.9 billion versus last year, as we reduced broker deposits by $3.8 billion. Also, during the fourth quarter, we issued a $750 million 3-year secured public bond from the Synchrony Card Issuance Trust with the tightest benchmark adjusted spread we've had in the past 7 years and a final coupon of 4.06%. At December 31, deposits represented 84% of our total funding with secured debt representing 9% and unsecured debt representing 7%. Total liquid assets decreased 3% to $16.6 billion and represented 13.9% of total assets, 45 basis points lower than last year.

Moving to our capital ratios. Synchrony ended the quarter with a CET1 ratio of 12.6%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.8% and a total capital ratio of 15.8%, each declined approximately 70 basis points versus prior year. And our Tier 1 capital plus reserves ratio decreased to 23.7% compared to 24.3% last year. During the fourth quarter, Synchrony returned $1.1 billion to shareholders, consisting of $952 million in share repurchases and $106 million in common stock dividends, and for the full year, we returned $3.3 billion, including $2.9 billion in share repurchases and $427 million in common stock dividends. Synchrony remains well positioned to return capital to shareholders subject to our business performance, market conditions, regulatory restrictions or expectations and our capital plan.

Turning to our outlook for 2026 on Slide 11. Synchrony's high-level execution throughout the past year, coupled with our ongoing investments, has positioned us well to grow our portfolio in a prudent, risk-adjusted manner should conditions allow. Our baseline assumptions include no regulatory or legislative changes, a stable macroeconomic environment with no significant reduction in inflation rates, full year GDP growth of 2%, a year-end unemployment rate of 4.8%, a year-end Fed funds rate of 3.25% and full year deposit betas of approximately 65%.

For 2026, we expect average active account and purchase volume growth to drive mid-single-digit ending receivables growth even while payment rates remain elevated. The rate of receivables growth should follow seasonality and accelerate as we move into the back half of the year as recently launched programs grow and the Lowe's commercial co-brand credit card program transfers to our portfolio in the second quarter. This growth outlook also assumes no additional broad-based credit refinements.

We currently also expect our portfolio net charge-off rate to be in line with our long-term target of 5.5% to 6%. We will continue to monitor our portfolio performance and the broader macroeconomic conditions closely. To the extent we see notable changes in the portfolio trends or macroeconomic conditions, we will consider making further adjustments to our credit positioning.

We expect net interest income to continue to grow in 2026, as the impact of PPPCs continue to build and as we reduce our funding liabilities costs. These trends will be partially offset by lower late fee incidents and the yield dilutive effect of accelerating new account growth. RSAs are expected to increase, reflecting stronger program performance, but remain within our target of 4.0% to 4.5% of average receivables.

Other expenses, excluding the impact of the $98 million of notable items in 2025, should grow in line with loan receivables, reflecting continued investment in our growth and innovation, as we look to drive our momentum forward. We remain focused on delivering operating leverage in our business while balancing the opportunities we see to power leading-edge experiences and portfolio expansion.

Altogether, these financial drivers are expected to deliver net earnings per diluted share between $9.10 and $9.50 for the full year 2026. This range includes the impact of growth-related initiatives like Walmart OnePay, Lowe's commercial co-brand and Versatile Credit as well as investments in other key technology initiatives. These combined investments will impact loan receivables yield, provision for credit losses, other income and other expenses to varying degrees.

Synchrony's model is designed to generate double-digit earnings per share growth on average over time and through cycles. This reflects our disciplined approach to underwriting and credit management as well as our expense base and economic alignment we achieved through our RSAs. As we look to 2026 and beyond, these core drivers have set the stage, as conditions allow, for Synchrony to drive strong earnings and continued progress towards our long-term financial targets while generating incremental excess capital.

With that, I'll turn the call back to Brian.

Brian Doubles
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Brian. Before I turn the call over to Q&A, I'd like to leave you with 3 key takeaways from today's discussion. First, Synchrony is executing on our key strategic priorities to grow and win new partners, diversify our programs, products and markets and deliver best-in-class experiences for all those we serve. And we are doing this while also earning the honor of being ranked second among the top best companies to work for in the U.S. by Fortune Magazine and Great Places to Work in 2025. I am incredibly proud of the great work we are doing together and the great strides we are making as we seek to solidify Synchrony at the heart of American commerce.

Second, Synchrony's past, present and future are grounded in our ability to drive sustainable growth at appropriate risk-adjusted returns through cycles and the evolving consumer landscape. Our expertise, discipline and consistent innovation have made this possible, allowing us to deliver products and experiences with enduring appeal and compelling value for both our customers and partners alike. Since exiting the pandemic in 2021, Synchrony has added or renewed more than 300 partners, including 16 of our top 20, while also growing ending receivables at an average rate of approximately 7% and delivering an average return on assets of approximately 3% and an average return on tangible common equity of approximately 25%.

And third, Synchrony's robust capital generation capacity positions us well to continue to invest in our business and growth opportunities while also returning capital as conditions allow. So as we look to 2026 and beyond, we are confident in the momentum we've built to drive considerable long-term value for our many stakeholders.

And with that, I'll turn the call back to Kathryn to open the Q&A.

Kathryn Miller
Senior Vice President & Director of Investor Relations

That concludes our prepared remarks. We will now begin the Q&A session. [Operator Instructions] If you have additional questions, the Investor Relations team will be available after the call. Operator, please start the Q&A session.

