Sysco Corporation (SYY) Q2 2026 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Kevin Kim - Vice President of Investor Relations
Kevin Hourican - CEO & Chairman
Kenny Cheung - CFO & Executive VP

Conference Call Participants

Mark Carden - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Lauren Silberman - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Jake Bartlett - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
John Heinbockel - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Alexander Slagle - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
John Ivankoe - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Danilo Gargiulo - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to today's Sysco second quarter fiscal year 2026 earnings conference call. [Operator Instructions] We will begin with opening remarks and introductions. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Kevin Kim, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Kevin Kim
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Sysco's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Call. On today's call, we have Kevin Hourican, our Chair of the Board and CEO; and Kenny Cheung, our CFO.

Before we begin, please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions, beliefs, expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act and actual results could differ in a material manner. Additional information about factors that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings. This includes but is not limited to, risk factors contained in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 28, 2025, subsequent SEC filings and the news release issued earlier this morning. A copy of these materials can be found in the Investors section at sysco.com.

Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in our presentation slides. The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP measures is included at the end of the presentation slides and can also be found in the Investors section of our website. During the discussion today, unless otherwise stated, all results are compared to the same quarter in the prior year. To ensure we have sufficient time to answer all questions, I'd like to ask each participant to limit their time today to one question. If you have a follow-up question, please reenter the queue.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Hourican.

Kevin Hourican
CEO & Chairman

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I am pleased to report that Sysco delivered strong results in the second quarter of fiscal 2026. Our results were enabled by improving case volume trends, strengthening gross margin performance and disciplined expense management. Given the strong start to the year, we now expect full year adjusted EPS to be at the high end of our previously provided annual guidance range of $4.50 to $4.60. We are delivering sequential improvement in our business, setting the stage for further momentum in the second half of the fiscal year.

During our call today, we will share insights into the progress that we are making, provide color on each major business segment, we will discuss the external business environment, and we will highlight progress on select growth initiatives. After my remarks, Kenny will highlight our financial results and he will share why we are confident in our ability to deliver adjusted EPS at the high end of our guidance range.

Let's jump into our business results, starting on Slide 4. Our Q2 performance exceeded our previously communicated targets for USFS local volume and adjusted earnings per share. Sysco delivered nearly $21 billion of total revenue, a growth rate of 3% versus the prior year. Importantly, we delivered positive case growth in our local, specialty, national and international business units. USFS local case volume was up 1.2% in the quarter, an improvement of 140 basis points versus Q1. This improvement in performance was approximately 40 basis points stronger than what we had guided on our last call. The improvement in our performance can be seen on Slide 8.

Sysco's 140 basis points of local case growth improvement was delivered in an environment where traffic to restaurants per Black Box declined more than 200 basis points year-over-year and a similar decline quarter-over-quarter. We are strengthening our performance at Sysco in a softening macro backdrop. Our improvement gives us the conviction in our ability to gain share profitably in the current market conditions.

We are pleased with the positive momentum in local volumes over each of the last 3 quarters in the U.S. as seen on Slide #8. We are now solidly in positive volume growth territory, and we expect continued positive momentum for the second half of the year. More specifically, we expect reported local volume growth of at least positive 2.5% in both Q3 and Q4. To double-click into that 2.5% back half growth, we expect at least 2.1% to come from organic local case growth, representing a 100 basis points improvement versus Q2 with approximately 50 basis points additional contribution from M&A activity recently completed.

Turning the page to our national contract business. During our second quarter, our national business generated volume growth of 0.4%. Unpacking this segment further, we saw strong growth in our foodservice management business, solid growth in travel and entertainment and positive and strengthening volume growth in our healthcare business. The positive growth from these business units was partially offset by softness in our national restaurant segment.

The declining foot traffic to restaurants per Black Box has negatively impacted our national chain restaurant customers as can be seen in our results as volume with these customers was down year-over-year. For the remainder of fiscal year, we expect case volume growth for national contract customers in total to be greater than 2% due to the onboarding of net new customer wins in the national restaurant customer business and continued strength in our nonrestaurant business.

Having covered top line results, I will now transition to the middle of our P&L and highlight our expanded gross margins year-over-year. Our buying and merchandising teams are doing a solid job of ensuring best price in our procurement efforts in partnering with our sales teams to highlight that value to our customers. As I have mentioned on previous earnings calls, we are working extensively to increase the availability of products in what we call the value tier of a good, better, best product hierarchy.

Sysco currently under penetrates in the value tier and there is an opportunity for improvement, especially in an environment where restaurants are seeking ways to save money. Historically, Sysco has had a strong position in the premium or better best segments of the business and our merchandising focus on the value tier is intended to supplement our existing assortment. Doing so will enable us to win net new lines from existing customers. The development of a stronger value assortment is actively underway and will progress constructively over the next calendar year.

I want to be very clear that these efforts are not intended to trade customers down from better to good. This is about filling voids in the Sysco product assortment, meeting the customer where they are in growing our business profitably with existing customers.

Sysco delivered solid expense control in the quarter with supply chain productivity continuing to improve quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. Warehouse and driver colleague retention improved in the quarter, driving improvement in productivity. We are delivering strong service to our customers and improving our supply chain cost performance.

Turning to our International segment. We are extremely pleased with the performance being delivered by our international team. During the quarter, we delivered sales growth of 7.3% on a reported basis and up 9.9% when excluding the divestiture of Mexico. Starting in Q3 2026, we will have fully lapped our Mexico business exit. The momentum in our international business was fueled by every international geography. To that end, local case growth in our International segment was up 4.5% in the period. This growth is being generated by expanded supply chain capacity, increased availability of Sysco branded merchandise, increased sales head count and easier-to-use technology. The 4.5% local case growth, coupled with disciplined expense management, delivered adjusted operating income growth of nearly 26%. This represents the ninth consecutive quarter of double-digit operating income growth and highlights the reality that Sysco International is a growth engine within the company. I am proud of the progress that we have made in International, and we are very bullish on our future in this segment.

I'd now like to transition into a brief update on select growth initiatives that are driving our positive U.S. local case growth. First off, I would like to provide an update on sales colleague retention and productivity. As was the case in Q1, our colleague retention rate in Q2 was at or above our historical high watermark. We have fully stabilized sales colleague retention, and we are now focused on increasing selling productivity. Due to the higher than normal percentage of sales colleagues that are newer to role, we are focused on product and selling training. We have full confidence that these training efforts are improving selling effectiveness.

In Q2, we can see the improvement through important internal sales metrics. We continue to onboard net new customers at a high level, and we have made meaningful progress in improving customer retention. The spread between new customer onboarding and existing customer lost is measured in a new versus loss ratio. That ratio expanded solidly in the second quarter.

To assist our colleagues, we have deployed tools to improve selling productivity. Most notable is our AI 360 CRM tool, which is now 4 months live in production. Engagement with AI 360 remains very high with 95% or more of our colleagues using the tool weekly. More importantly, we can track utilization and selling performance through AI360. Across all sales colleague tenures, those that are using the tool more often are outperforming those that use it less often. The math is very clear. If you use the tool, you sell more.

Our goal in the second half of the year is to ensure all of our sales reps are actively engaging with the selling suggestions that come from AI360. To that end, we have new functionality being deployed to the tool on a regular basis. Coming soon will be something that we call Swap and Save suggestions for our sales consultants to introduce to customers. With the click of one button, the sales consultant will have access to prioritize suggestions of products that can save our customer money. These suggestions are cuisine specific to the restaurant and are generated by our internal data science team. The key is in the data, knowing which items are acceptable solutions and substitutions. We are able to identify which of the item substitutions will save the customer money. It'll help Sysco make more money and importantly, make our sales reps more money too. The suggestions that will be prompted will be those that check each of these 3 boxes: a win, win, win. AI360 will enable our sales teams to put more of these Swap and Save opportunities in front of our customers more often.

Lastly, I'd like to provide a quick update on Sysco Your Way and Perks loyalty program performance. Sysco Your Way neighborhoods continue to deliver mid-single-digit volume growth year-over-year, despite being in the fourth year of existence. That durable growth success proves that the program resonates well with customers. We are growing our customer count and the lines purchased per existing customers within Sysco Your Way neighborhoods.

The revamp of Sysco Perks is delivering results as we had anticipated. We are seeing improved customer retention year-over-year, and we are seeing increased share of wallet with these important customers. Our local business is now growing as a result of improved colleague productivity and the sales driving programs that I just mentioned. We are confident we will continue to make progress, and therefore, we are confident in the projection that we will improve local volumes to at least 2.5% in the second half of fiscal 2026.

As I wrap up my prepared remarks, I would like to provide an update on 2 miscellaneous topics from the quarter. First is to communicate that we completed a small tuck-in acquisition at the end of the second quarter. We are pleased to welcome Ginsberg's Foods, a premier broad line distributor in the Northeast to the Sysco family. This transaction increases our customer count in a high-value region of the country and help Sysco's leverage its supply chain network more completely. We are excited to create additional scale and growth potential in the geography as we welcome the Ginsberg colleagues and customers to Sysco. Over time, we are positioned to unlock additional top line growth and margin expansion opportunities as we introduce Sysco's buying programs and product assortment to the expanded customer set.

Lastly, I want to acknowledge the retirement transition of our Chief Operating Officer, Greg Bertrand. Greg began his Sysco journey in 1991 and quickly advanced through the ranks, serving as our global COO since September of 2023. Greg will be missed personally and professionally, and we thank him for his substantial contributions to Sysco across his 35-year career.

Over the next year, Greg will serve as a strategic adviser in a part-time capacity. Greg will focus his time and efforts on helping develop newer Sysco field leaders and will support me directly on select strategic initiatives like the Ginsberg acquisition that I just mentioned. We expect a smooth transition over the next year as we have a strong depth of experienced leadership talent in our field organization.

In closing, I want to reiterate that we are encouraged by our strengthening results and that we are confident in our business momentum as we head into the second half of the year. We expect improved productivity from our sales colleagues driven by strong retention and improved selling effectiveness by leveraging our selling tools and from leaning into select growth initiatives, all backstopped by a supply chain that is performing at exceptionally high levels of service. It is these factors that give me, Kenny and our leadership team the confidence that we will deliver 2.5% plus local case growth in the second half and adjusted EPS results at the high end of our guidance range.

With that, I'd now like to turn the call over to Kenny. Kenny, over to you.

Kenny Cheung
CFO & Executive VP

Thank you, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. Our Q2 results were strong with sales growth of 3% and adjusted EPS growth of 6.5%. Our financial results this quarter also demonstrated high quality of earnings as free cash flow grew by 25% year-to-date. Our balanced portfolio of business and keen focus on operations enable us to deliver continued momentum versus last quarter with results coming in ahead of our previously communicated expectations despite the choppy macroeconomic environment.

We entered the fiscal year detailing how company-specific initiatives would help us deliver on our external commitments with a focus on the key inputs of retention and productivity across our sales and supply chain organization. During the quarter, these were material drivers that enabled us to deliver on our expectations for the first half of the year.

Looking ahead, our continued focus on go-to-market and operational excellence is expected to drive our second half results. As Kevin highlighted, we are creating structural improvements, and we are confident in raising our FY '26 guidance to the high end of the adjusted EPS range. Our adjusted EPS growth in Q2 included continued tailwinds from our strategic sourcing efforts, aiding in the delivery of 3.9% growth in gross profit and translating to 15 basis points of gross margin expansion year-over-year. The increase in dollar and rate reflects the carryover benefit from structural improvements that we expect to continue in our third quarter.

Our stabilized sales colleague retention rates, paired with ongoing productivity improvements drove sequential volume growth across our USFS local business. During the quarter, our supply chain continued to perform at a very high level as a result of productivity enhancements stemming from improved tenure and strengthen operational execution. This, in turn, helped to improve execution of the basics and are supporting improved fill rates and order accuracy while strengthening safety and enabling on-time deliveries. These efforts, alongside continued investments in both sales head count and capacity supported steady business momentum and enabled adjusted EPS growth of 6.5% in the quarter.

As Kevin noted, we also recently expanded our distribution capabilities in the population dense Northeast corridor in late December with the successful acquisition of Ginsberg's Foods, one of the nation's leading regional wholesale distribution companies. This is a compelling strategic and financial fit for Sysco that is accretive to our portfolio. We are excited about the opportunity to unlock incremental growth as we complement our unique specialty capabilities with the addition of this top-tier broadline organization. Looking ahead, we expect our positive momentum to continue as we drive growth across the region.

Turning to International. This segment remains a great case study in the power of the Sysco playbook. The positive momentum over the past few years continued in Q2 with sales growth of 7.3%, including local case growth of 4.5%, gross profit growth of 9.5% and adjusted operating income growth of 25.6%. Our strategy is driving results across all geographies underscoring the significant operational advantages enabled by our size and scale.

Now let's discuss our performance and the financial drivers for the quarter. Starting on Slide 12. For the second quarter, our enterprise sales grew 3% on an as-reported basis, driven by U.S. Foodservice International and SYGMA. Excluding the impact of our divested Mexico business, sales grew 3.5%. Total U.S. Foodservice volume increased 0.8%, while local volume increased 1.2% in the quarter. These results were sequential improvements as compared to Q1. For our USFS local business, this represents a sequential volume improvement of 140 basis points, outpacing the industry's negative 230 basis points of sequential traffic decline for the quarter.

We are encouraged by the meaningful acceleration in our local volume performance even as the industry decelerated throughout the quarter. The continued momentum in our performance drove a widening gap of outperformance over the course of the quarter. Although it remains early in our fiscal third quarter, I am encouraged to share that we are seeing continued year-over-year momentum in volume growth rates during the month of January. As Kevin highlighted, the benefits from our stabilized colleague population are fueling our performance as newer sales professionals continue to work up the productivity curve. This momentum is just getting started and serves to strengthen our confidence in delivering our FY 2026 guidance.

Additionally, SYGMA results this quarter were solid, reflecting 0.5% sales growth and 10.5% operating income growth, reflecting increased strength in our supply chain operations. For the remainder of the year, we expect more moderate results reflecting the follow-through on our efforts to drive continued operating efficiencies.

Sysco produced $3.8 billion in gross profit, up 3.9%; gross margin expansion of 15 basis points to 18.3%, an improved gross profit per case performance. This notable margin improvement reflects strategic sourcing efforts and effective management of product cost inflation across our baskets, which continue to moderate, including categories that were deflationary in Q2.

Inflation rates for the enterprise were approximately 2.9% and a USBL were approximately 1.4%. This rate moderated slightly on a sequential basis, which we believe will help the affordability across the industry. Importantly, just as we deliver in the first half, we continue to expect our disciplined actions to generate strong gross profit dollars per case in margins in this backdrop.

Overall, adjusted operating expenses were $3 billion for the quarter or 14.4% of sales, a 15 basis points increase from the prior year, reflecting planned investments in higher growth areas of the business with fleet, building expansion and sales headcount, along with the lapping of $16 million in incentive compensation from the second quarter of the prior year. The incentive compensation lap negatively impacted adjusted operating expenses by approximately 60 basis points and adjusted EPS growth by approximately 270 basis points.

As I mentioned earlier, our operations expense this quarter included benefits from supply chain productivity enhancements stemming from improved tenor and strengthened operational execution. Corporate adjusted expenses were up 3.8% from the prior year, reflecting continued investments lapping incentive compensation from last year and other costs. Excluding the impact of incentive compensation from the prior year, corporate expenses were approximately flat year-over-year, reflecting cost savings and efficiencies effort over the past few years.

Overall, adjusted operating income grew to $807 million for the quarter, reflecting continued improvements in our local case volumes, along with strong growth in our International segment. For the quarter, adjusted EBITDA of $1 billion was up 3.3% versus the prior year.

Let's now turn to our corporate balance sheet and cash flow. Our investment-grade balance sheet remains robust and reflects a healthy financial profile. Our $2.9 billion in total liquidity remains well above our minimum threshold and offers flexibility and optionality. We ended the quarter at a 2.86x net debt leverage ratio.

Turning to our cash flow year-to-date. Our free cash flow was $413 million, up 25%, highlighting strong quality of earnings and reflecting both typical seasonality and timing of CapEx.

Now I'd like to share with you our expectations for FY '26. We are pleased today to announce a raise to our FY '26 adjusted EPS guidance. We now expect full year 2026 EPS to be at the high end of our prior range of $4.50 to $4.60. Keep in mind that this continues to include an approximate $100 million headwind from lapping lower incentive compensation in fiscal 2025, an impact of roughly negative $0.16 per share. Excluding the negative impact of the incentive compensation on 2026, our outlook for adjusted EPS growth in FY '26 will deliver at the high end of approximately 5% to 7%, which is in line with our long-term growth algorithm.

Now at the halfway point for the year, we remain confident in our Sysco specific initiatives delivering results in the second half of the year. Our teams expect a similar macro and industry traffic backdrop for the remainder of this fiscal year. Guidance also includes continued expectations for net sales growth of approximately 3% to 5% to approximately $84 billion to $85 billion driven by inflation of approximately 2%, volume growth and contributions from M&A.

Transitioning to our expectations for the second half. We have now fully lapped both the headwind from the intentional FreshPoint business exit in the U.S. and the year-over-year comparability impact related to the exit of our Mexico JV for International. Specific to volumes, we expect to deliver year-over-year local case growth of at least 2.5% in Q3 and Q4.

By segment, we continue to expect positive adjusted operating income growth across USFS, International and SYGMA segment for the rest of the year. More specifically, we expect USFS profitability to return to growth in Q3 and Q4, driven by volume growth and continued discipline around margin management, coupled with continued focus on ROIC. To help with the phasing for adjusted EPS for Q3, we are comfortable with the current consensus estimate of $0.94. As outlined on Slide 18, this includes the carryover impact from the incentive compensation specific to Q3 is $63 million and Q4 is $11 million. Excluding the negative impact of the incentive compensation on 2026, our outlook for the second half adjusted EPS growth is in line with our long-term growth algorithm. We are proud of our strong track record of dividend growth and dividend aristocrat status.

For FY '26, we remain on target for shareholder returns through approximately $1 billion in dividends and approximately $1 billion in share repurchase plan for the year. As we've said before, this is all based on our current expectations and economic conditions that could flex based on M&A activity for the year. Specific to our share repurchase, we expect to resume repurchase activity starting in Q3. Specific to our dividend, our expected payout for FY '26 equates to 6% year-over-year increase on a per share basis.

In terms of leverage, we continue to target a net leverage ratio of 2.5x to 2.75x and maintain our investment-grade balance sheet. Specific to adjusted D&A, we now expect approximately $820 million for the year. This includes approximately $210 million in both Q3 and Q4. This updated outlook reflects the combined benefit from our ongoing efforts on driving returns on invested capital and marginally lower capital expenditures for the year. All other modeling items previously outlined on our Q1 call, including interest expense, other expense, tax rate and CapEx remains unchanged.

Looking ahead, we are confident in our position and remain focused on leveraging our strength as the industry leader to drive customer growth while continuing to create value for our shareholders.

With that, I'll turn the call back to Kevin for closing remarks.

Kevin Hourican
CEO & Chairman

Thank you, Kenny. Q2 was a quarter displaying momentum and progress at Sysco in a macro backdrop with soft traffic to restaurants. We are confident that our internal progress will continue, and we will plan to deliver local case growth of at least 2.5% in the second half. There is still much progress to be made and work to be done but we are pleased with the improvement we are delivering and the momentum that is building within the company.

Importantly, the improved U.S. local volume we are delivering will enable the stellar performance in our International division to shine through more clearly. We are excited for the progress that we are making, and we are committed to strong execution in the second half of the year to deliver these outcomes.

With that, operator, we now turn it over for questions.

