BBB Foods Inc. (TBBB) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 20, 2025 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Kamal Hatoum - Founder, CEO & Chairman
Eduardo Pizzuto - CFO & Investor Relations Officer

Conference Call Participants

Robert Ford - BofA Securities, Research Division
Joseph Giordano - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Alvaro Garcia - Banco BTG Pactual S.A., Research Division
Alejandro Fuchs - Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A., Research Division
Héctor Maya López - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Alexandre Namioka - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Irma Sgarz - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Alexander Wright - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, everyone. My name is Danielle, and I will be your conference operator. Welcome to the Tiendas 3B Third Quarter 2025 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Also, please note that this call is for investors and analysts only. Questions from the media will not be taken nor should the call be reported on. Any forward-looking statements made during this conference call are based on information that is currently available to us.

Today, we are joined by Tiendas 3B's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Anthony Hatoum; and Chief Financial Officer, Eduardo Pizzuto. I will now turn the call over to Anthony. Please go ahead.

Kamal Hatoum
Founder, CEO & Chairman

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining Tiendas 3B's third quarter earnings call. I will begin with a review of our operating results for the quarter and will be followed by our CFO, Eduardo Pizzuto, who will provide an overview of our financial performance. We will conclude with a Q&A session.

We've delivered another quarter of exceptional growth, outperforming other listed players. We opened 131 net new stores in the quarter for a total of 3,162 stores. We opened 2 distribution centers in the quarter for now a total of 18. Our LTM store openings are 528 stores. Same-store sales grew by 17.9%. Total revenues increased by 36.7% to reach MXN 20.3 billion.

EBITDA reported a loss of MXN 404 million. If we exclude our noncash share-based payments, then EBITDA increased by 43.6% and reached a positive MXN 1.2 billion. For the 9 months of 2025, cash flow generated by operating activities reached MXN 3 billion or a 30% increase year-on-year. We ended with a net cash position of approximately MXN 1.1 billion. In addition to this, we have $151 million in short-term deposits.

Let's turn to operational performance. We are increasing the number of store openings. In the first 9 months of 2025, we opened 390 stores. This compares to 346 stores opened in the first 9 months of last year. Revenue growth remains rapid. We continue to be one of the fastest-growing retailers globally. Total revenues reached MXN 20.3 billion or an increase of 36.7% year-over-year, this, with a very strong same-store sales growth of 17.9%.

Same-store sales is being driven by the continuous improvement of our value proposition to customers and more consumers realizing that. When comparing to ANTAD, our gap continues to increase. Our gap versus ANTAD is almost 17 percentage points today.

I will now pass the microphone to Eduardo.

Eduardo Pizzuto
CFO & Investor Relations Officer

Thank you, Anthony. Good morning, everyone. Sales expenses as a percentage of revenue increased from 10.1% to 10.2%. On one hand, we see real operational leverage as our store mature. On the other, we see this quarter an increase in D&A expenses as a percentage of revenue. I expect that next quarter, the comparison will be more favorable. Admin expenses, excluding share-based payments, increased by 16 basis points due to investments in new regions and hiring more talent.

With respect to share-based payment expense, these are noncash and already reflected in our fully diluted share count. Please see the appendix of this earnings release. You can also see the projection of this noncash expense in the appendix. EBITDA increased 43.6% to reach 5.8%, driven by sales and margin growth and operational efficiency.

I want to touch on operational leverage and margins. Close to half of our stores were opened in the last 3 years. When we look at our older vintages, their EBITDA margins are close to those you would see at other hard discounters. As you know, we don't drive to an EBITDA. It will naturally increase over time as a consequence of all the good things we are doing. Ours is a business model that generates significant negative working capital. And in turn, we generate significant cash flow from the changes in negative working capital.

We can see, for example, that in September '25, we had MXN 7.8 billion compared to a negative working capital of MXN 5.4 billion in the third quarter of '24, excluding IPO proceeds. We are roughly at 10.8% of total revenue, excluding IPO proceeds.

I will now turn the call back over to Anthony for some final remarks.

Kamal Hatoum
Founder, CEO & Chairman

We are hitting or exceeding our targets with same-store sales that stand out versus industry. Our business is robust, noncyclical and battle tested. In terms of store growth, we have significant runway with room for no less than 14,000 3B stores in Mexico. Today, we are opening more stores and faster. Our same-store sales growth is not only due to our newer stores, our older vintages continue to grow their same-store sales faster than inflation. This is driven by the continuous improvements in the products we sell both in terms of quality and price.

Our brand equity continues to strengthen. This drives a faster sales ramp-up of our newer stores and draws new clients to our stores. Our older vintages are already showing EBITDA margins that are in line with those recorded by other listed hard discounters. We continue to invest in talent. We believe that this is a key success factor. The talent density within our team stands out in the market.

Our share-based compensation approach has been a key driver to our success. It attracts entrepreneurial talent and aligns everyone with shareholders. Just as a note, our Board of Directors decided in its last meeting not to make additional reserves for our equity incentive plan for the year 2026. We continue to do the same, just better and faster. The future looks bright.

We'll now start the Q&A session. So please go ahead, operator.