TE Connectivity plc (TEL) Q1 2026 Earnings Call January 21, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Sujal Shah - Vice President of Investor Relations
Terrence Curtin - CEO & Executive Director
Heath Mitts - CFO, Executive VP & Executive Director

Conference Call Participants

Scott Davis - Melius Research LLC
Mark Delaney - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Amit Daryanani - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Wamsi Mohan - BofA Securities, Research Division
Luke Junk - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Joseph Spak - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Colin Langan - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Guy Drummond Hardwick - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Asiya Merchant - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Joseph Giordano - TD Cowen, Research Division
Steven Fox - Fox Advisors LLC
Christopher Glynn - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
William Stein - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Shreyas Patil - Wolfe Research, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Everyone, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the TE Connectivity First Quarter Earnings Call for Fiscal Year 2026. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Vice President of Investor Relations, Sujal Shah. Please go ahead.

Sujal Shah
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning, and thank you for joining our conference call to discuss TE Connectivity's First Quarter results and our outlook for the Second Quarter of Fiscal 2026. With me today are Chief Executive Officer, Terrence Curtin; and Chief Financial Officer, Heath Mitts.

During this call, we will be providing certain forward-looking information, and we ask you to review the forward-looking cautionary statements included in today's press release. In addition, we will use certain non-GAAP measures in our discussion this morning, we ask you to review the sections of our press release, and the accompanying slide presentation that address the use of these items. The press release and related tables, along with the slide presentation, can be found on the Investor Relations portion of our website at te.com. [Operator Instructions]

Let me now turn the call over to Terrence for opening comments.

Terrence Curtin
CEO & Executive Director

Thank you, Sujal. And I also want to thank everyone for joining us today, and I also want to thank those of you who attended our Investor Day last quarter.

Before I get into details on the slide, I do want to frame today's call around the key messages that we shared at the event in November and are reinforced by our first quarter results as well as our outlook. And briefly, we conveyed several key tenets of our strategy and business model.

First, that we have been investing and have broadened our growth drivers to benefit from secular trends that are driven by the increased needs by our customers around data and power connectivity.

Second, our co-creation engineering models ensures product innovation. And that, coupled with our global supply chain investments will drive value for our customers.

And lastly, that we will capitalize on the growth and the investments to drive margin expansion with double-digit earnings per share growth and a continued strong cash generation model.

Our first quarter results and our expectations going forward to reinforce these key messages that we convey. We delivered over 20% sales growth in the first quarter with growth in both segments by driving content growth above market. We had record orders of over $5 billion, and this was a growth of more than $1 billion versus the prior year, and this order growth was across our businesses. This growth is being driven by new program awards from our customers, demonstrating the operations and engineering moat that we outlined. Our sales growth and order momentum reinforces the broadening that we talked about at our Investor Day.

We also have improved our operating resilience through localization of our supply chain. Our teams continue to execute well despite ongoing macro unevenness to deliver record adjusted operating margins and earnings per share in the first quarter, along with strong cash generation. And lastly, we outlined a long-term through-cycle target of 6 to 8 points of annual average growth. With the momentum that we're seeing, we expect to deliver growth in fiscal 2026 that is ahead of this target.

So with that as a backdrop, let's get into the slides that we sent out, starting with Slide 3, and I'll discuss first quarter results and our guidance for the second quarter of fiscal 2026.

Our first quarter sales were $4.7 billion, growing 22% on a reported basis and 15% organically year-over-year with growth in both segments, and both segments contributed to our sales being above guidance. As I mentioned, we saw orders increase to a record level of over $5 billion, and our book-to-bill was 1.1, reinforcing our momentum, and I'll provide more color on orders as I get into the next slide.

We delivered record adjusted earnings per share of $2.72, which was above guidance and increased over 30% versus the prior year due to strong execution by our teams. Adjusted operating margins were 22%, and this was an increase of 180 basis points over last year.

We also continue to demonstrate our strong cash generation model with free cash flow above $600 million, and we returned 100% of our free cash flow to shareholders in the quarter, while continuing to support investments for future growth.

As we look forward, we are expecting our second quarter sales to be $4.7 billion, reflecting an increase of 13% year-over-year on a reported basis and 6% organically. We expect adjusted earnings per share to be around $2.65, and this is 20% growth year-over-year. Sequentially, we expect our Industrial Solutions segment to grow, and this will be partially offset by transportation's typical auto seasonality trends that we see globally.

So with that as a quick overview of results, let's turn to Slide 4, so I can get into more detail on our order trends.

In the quarter, we saw orders increase by over $1 billion versus the prior year to $5.1 billion. By geography, we saw double-digit organic order growth in all regions on a year-over-year basis. At our Investor Day, we discussed our engineering-centric design model and focus on the need for more data and power connectivity to create value for our customers that will also translate into value for our owners. Our momentum in the key applications continue, whether that is secular growth in AI, the positioning of TE for power connectivity in the utility space, or the data connectivity needed for next-generation vehicles as a key driver of content growth for our transportation businesses.

Getting into orders by segment. In the Industrial segment, orders grew over 40% versus the prior year with essentially every business posting double-digit growth versus the prior year. We see ongoing momentum in digital data networks, energy as well as AD&M. In our automation and connected living business, we are seeing recovery in the factory automation applications with organic sales growth in all regions, both year-over-year and sequentially, and I meant orders growth, not sales growth.

Transportation orders increased 11% versus the prior year and grew in all businesses. In our automotive business, orders grew year-over-year and sequentially from the fourth quarter to the first quarter, we saw our normal seasonal trends that follow auto production. Commercial transportation organic orders grew both year-over-year and sequentially, indicating ongoing market improvements in both Asia and in Europe.

So with that as an overview of the orders, let's get into the quarterly segment results, and I'll start with our Industrial segment, which is on Slide 5.

Our sales in the Industrial Solutions segment grew 38% in the quarter and 26% on an organic basis year-over-year, reinforcing the broadening of growth within the segment. Digital data networks had another outstanding quarter, where the business grew 70% year-over-year, and our AI revenue was higher than our expectations. Our customers continue to award us new programs and the orders that we've received are creating backlog for the second half of this year and into 2027. We now expect our AI revenues in fiscal 2026 to be a couple of hundred million dollars higher than our view 90 days ago, with growth expected across every hyperscale customer. To support this acceleration, we continue to increase our investment in our digital data networks business, and Heath will talk more about this in his section.

Turning to automation and connected living. The business grew 12% organically year-over-year with growth in each region, and we continue to expect recovery in the general industrial markets as we move through the year.

In our energy business, our sales grew 88%, including the Richards acquisition, which enables us to capitalize on strong growth opportunities in the U.S. utility market. Organically, sales increased 15% driven by continued increased investments by customers in grid hardening and renewable applications. And what was nice this quarter is we saw strong growth both in the United States as well as in Europe.

In our AD&M business, sales grew 11% organically, driven by growth across both commercial aerospace and defense applications. In these markets, we continue to see favorable demand trends coupled with ongoing supply chain improvements that are helping to support the growth.

And in our medical business, we grew 5% organically, which was in line with what we expected. At the segment level, if you look at margins, the Industrial segment adjusted operating margins expanded by over 500 basis points to 23%, driven by strong operational performance and the benefits of higher volume.

So with that as a summary of Industrial Solutions, please turn to Slide 6, and I'll get into Transportation Solutions.

Our sales in the Transportation segment grew 10% in the quarter as well as 7% organically year-over-year. Our auto sales grew 7% organically in the first quarter, driven by content growth in Asia and in Europe. Our growth over market was at the high end of our 4- to 6-point range in the first quarter and as we shared with you at Investor Day, we expect our content growth to be balanced between data connectivity, e-mobility as well as electronification trends in the car. Our current quarter results show the contributions from data connectivity applications in our results, which are growing across all powertrain platforms.

We continue to benefit from our strong global position and localization strategy, and our growth over market in this quarter was driven by China and Europe. As we look forward, our view of auto production in fiscal 2026 remains consistent at roughly 88 million units, which is down slightly versus the last year.

Turning to commercial transportation. We saw strong organic growth of 16% year-over-year, and this growth was driven by Asia and in Europe. After 2 years of cyclical declines in the commercial transportation market, we're now seeing recovery in the end markets outside the United States and expect to benefit from our leading global position and content growth driven by architectural changes.

In our sensors business, sales were essentially flat, which was in line with our expectations. And on the margin side, for the Transportation segment, the team delivered adjusted operating margins above 21%, which was in line with our expectations.

With that overview, let me hand it off to Heath, who will get into more details on the financials and our expectations going forward.

Heath Mitts
CFO, Executive VP & Executive Director

Thank you, Terrence, and good morning, everyone.

Please turn to Slide 7. For the quarter, we achieved record adjusted operating income of over $1 billion with an adjusted operating margin of 22% driven by strong operational performance by our teams. GAAP operating income was $963 million and included $6 million of acquisition-related charges, $10 million of restructuring and other charges, and $57 million of amortization expense. As I said last quarter, I continue to expect restructuring charges in fiscal '26 to be roughly $100 million. Adjusted EPS was $2.72, and GAAP EPS was $2.53 for the quarter and included restructuring, acquisition and other charges of $0.04 and amortization expense of $0.15. The adjusted effective tax rate was approximately 22% in Q1, and we expect Q2 to be at this level as well. We continue to expect the full year tax rate to be approximately 23%, which is similar to last year. Importantly, as always, we anticipate our cash tax rate to be well below our adjusted ETR.

Now if we turn to Slide 8. Our results reflect the business model performance that I shared with you a couple of months ago at our Investor Day event. We are seeing broadening of growth that Terrence mentioned, 30% plus incremental margins on that sales growth, double-digit EPS growth and a strong cash generation model with balanced capital returns. Sales of $4.7 billion were up 22% on a reported basis and 15% on an organic basis year-over-year. Adjusted operating margins were 22.2% in the first quarter, expanding 180 basis points year-over-year. Adjusted earnings per share were $2.72, up 33% year-over-year driven by sales growth and margin expansion.

Turning to cash flow. Cash from operations was $865 million and free cash flow was $608 million, with roughly 100% return to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends. Our cash generation and healthy balance sheet give us continued optionality with uses of capital to support investments for future growth, both organically and through M&A. With the order momentum Terrence mentioned, we are increasing our capital expenditure this year to support the growth -- growing pipeline of customer awards for AI programs. We now expect CapEx to be closer to 6% of our sales this year, we feel strong about our cash generation model and continue to expect at least 100% free cash flow conversion for fiscal '26.

Now before I turn it over to questions, let me reinforce that we continue to execute well in both segments, and our Q1 results reflect a strong start to fiscal '26. For the full year, we are set up to deliver sales growth that is ahead of our through-cycle growth target, while expanding operating margins and very strong earnings per share growth.

And with that, let's open it up for questions.

Sujal Shah
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you. Tiffany, can you please give the instructions for the Q&A session?

