Target Corporation (TGT) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 19, 2025 8:00 AM EST


Company Participants

John Hulbert - Vice President of Investor Relations
Brian Cornell - Chairman of the Board & CEO
Michael Fiddelke - Executive VP & COO
Richard Gomez - Executive VP & Chief Commercial Officer
James Lee - Executive VP & CFO


Conference Call Participants

Simeon Gutman - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Corey Tarlowe - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Joseph Feldman - Telsey Advisory Group LLC
Michael Baker - D.A. Davidson & Co., Research Division
Katharine McShane - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Michael Lasser - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division


Presentation


Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Target Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Wednesday, November 19, 2025.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. John Hulbert, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.


John Hulbert
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our third quarter 2025 earnings conference call. On the line with me today are Brian Cornell, Chair and Chief Executive Officer; Michael Fiddelke, Chief Operating Officer; Rick Gomez, Chief Commercial Officer; and Jim Lee, Chief Financial Officer.

In a few minutes, Brian, Michael, Rick and Jim will provide their insights on our third quarter performance and outlook for the rest of the year. Following their remarks, we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session. This morning, we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast. Following the call, Jim and I will be available to answer your follow-up questions.

And finally, as a reminder, any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those described in this morning's earnings press release and in our most recently filed 10-K. Also in these remarks, we refer to non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted earnings per share. Reconciliations of all non-GAAP numbers to the most directly comparable GAAP number are included in this morning's press release, which is posted on our Investor Relations website.

With that, I'll turn it over to Brian to kick things off. Brian?


Brian Cornell
Chairman of the Board & CEO

Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. This is my final earnings call as Target's CEO, and I plan to keep my comments brief this morning. But I wanted to take a moment to thank all of you for your ongoing engagement and support over the last 11 years. It's been the highlight of my career to lead this great company and our business has undergone important changes since I arrived in 2014.

We entered into an innovative partnership with CVS to run our Pharmacy business. We changed our operating model in Food & Beverage, paving the way for explosive growth in that part of the business. We invested in our product design, development and sourcing capabilities and launched several new billion dollar owned brands.

We pioneered the stores as hubs model for digital fulfillment, remodeled well over 1,000 of our existing stores and added nearly 200 net new locations in the U.S. All told, this year's top line is expected to be well over $30 billion higher than the year I arrived. In that 2014 fiscal year, GAAP and adjusted EPS both came in around $4 a share. And the upper end of this year's expected range for adjusted EPS is double that number.

I am proud that our team could deliver this top and bottom line growth while building a solid foundation of operating capabilities, including one of the nation's largest loyalty programs in Target Circle and a rapidly growing retail media business in Roundel. That said, our business has not been performing up to its potential over the last few years.

And I am singularly focused on supporting Michael and the entire leadership team as they make changes to the way we work, enhancing our merchandising authority, our retail experience and investing in technology to accelerate our business. In the call today, you'll hear how the team is working quickly to get the company back to profitable growth. And while we're not there yet, I'm confident we're on the right path and Michael is the right person to lead the next chapter of Target's growth.

So with that, I want to thank all of you for your participation today and for your thoughtful engagement over the years. And finally, I want to thank the entire Target team. It has been a privilege to work with you in support of this great brand.

Now I'll turn the call and today's Q&A over to Michael.


Michael Fiddelke
Executive VP & COO

Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. We have high but achievable aspirations for Target's future, and we're acting with urgency to make the changes in investments to position Target for sustainable and profitable growth over time. While our third quarter performance came in as expected, we're far from satisfied with our current results, and we won't be satisfied until we're operating at our full potential.

To get there, we've set 3 distinct but highly interrelated priorities for our team. First, we must solidify our design-led merchandising authority leading with incredible product in a way that is distinctly target. Second, as a retailer that believes that the shopping experience is every bit as important as the products we sell, we need to offer a more consistently elevated experience across our stores and digital platforms. And third, we need to more fully use technology to improve our speed, guest experience and efficiency throughout the business.

Together, these priorities are in service of one goal, getting back to sustainable growth as quickly as possible. They guide every decision we make, and I want to spend a few minutes to help clarify what these priorities are, why each matters and share some of our progress to date. Before I expand on these priorities, I want to pause and acknowledge our recent restructuring headquarters, in which we eliminated approximately 1,800 roles or about 8% of our headquarters footprint, a difficult but necessary step forward.

While Jim will walk through some financial aspects of this decision, I want to make it clear that this move wasn't about cutting costs. Instead, by removing layers that have added complexity to the way we work, we're aiming to work with greater agility making it clear who owns decisions and empowering our team to operate with greater authority and speed in support of our strategy.

So let's discuss how we're making progress in solidifying our merchandising authority and elevating our shopping experience. And you'll also see the critical role that enhanced technology is playing in support of both, helping us progress quickly, efficiently in industry-leading ways. We are a design-led company. And that starts with our authority and merchandising. Our ability to build a unique assortment of the right, stylish on-trend products at incredible value that's so central to who we are and key to our differentiation and future growth.

At Target, we believe that offering an assortment that's distinctly ours is essential to maintaining our merchandising authority with our guests. Not every category plays the same role towards these efforts, but together, they create an assortment and experience that feels unmistakably Target.

A great example is the transformation of our Hardlines business into Fun 101, an evolution in bringing greater cultural relevance, style authority and trend-right energy to the assortment, reinforcing what makes shopping at Target so special. And while we have much more change in Fun 101 to come, it builds our confidence to see the categories that have seen the greatest change driving some of the strong sales performance already. Rick will have more details to share later.

And within each category, merchandising authority means staying incredibly close to our guests by knowing what they want next, reacting to, predicting and even setting new trends and tech will play a critical role in helping us get there.

We're enhancing our capabilities by equipping our teams with new tools that provide them with AI-enabled consumer insights at their fingertips. Our merchants now have real-time access to advanced data from what is currently trending on social media to which products and styles are resonating with consumers at Target and across the industry today, to what future trends our guests are most likely to care about, helping our team forecast needs, anticipate trends and buy both smarter and faster.

New tools also include our recently developed Target Trend Brain, our new internal creative platform, which uses Gen AI technology to help our teams identify and react to emerging trends faster and predict future trends. By leveraging AI to capture color, material, style and product details in applying consumer research and our brand principles, we can deliver unique and on-trend products to our guests faster than ever before. To further enhance our speed to market, we've also created synthetic audiences, AI-driven models that simulate real consumer populations to preview how different groups could respond to campaigns and products before they ever launch. This allows our marketing and design teams to test, learn and refine products, promotions and messaging with incredible speed and efficiency.

And while you'll see us continue to accelerate our use of technology, it's our talented team that brings this work to life, and we are investing intentionally in our team and how we approach our work. We're redefining roles throughout the cross-functional team that supports our assortment planning and buying decisions, what we call our merchant roundtable to better equip our teams to make bolder decisions even faster.

I'm also excited to share we welcome new leaders to the team in areas like our Home business to bring new ways of thinking and accelerate change in the signature category. These steps forward are examples of how we're solidifying our design-led merchandising authority by using people, process and technology to drive greater levels of newness and differentiation across our entire assortment more quickly reacting to emerging trends and amplifying these trends faster than ever before.

Let's turn now to our team's efforts to elevate the guest shopping experience, both in stores and digital, a great guest experience means a lot of things, but it starts with a warm, friendly and helpful team. In stores, we're making changes to give our team members more time to focus on what matters most, spending time helping our guests. Through enhanced digital tools, we're reducing time devoted to backroom tasks through more efficient truck unloading and stocking. Every hour we save is being reinvested to allow more guest interaction with a focus on friendliness and service that makes Target Target.

An elevated shopping experience also means consistently finding the products you want to need every time you shop. This holiday season, we're using our expertise and deep consumer knowledge in a new Gen AI-powered gift finder, available on our website and our app, allowing guests to ask questions on the app and help them find the perfect gift this holiday season by simply asking something as generic as what is a good present for my mother in law, to something more specific like I have a 5-year-old son that loves dinosaurs? What gifts are available for under $20? Our app will provide recommendations or ask clarifying questions to quickly and easily help guests find the right present for every person on their holiday shopping list.

For guests shopping in our stores and online, we're also investing resources to ensure we have the right product in the right place at the right time all year long. This includes modernizing the technology that forecasts, orders and positions our inventory using machine learning to optimize flow from supplier to shelf. It's helping us move inventory more efficiently, improve reliability for everyday frequently purchased items and further improve in-stocks. We've coupled these tech enhancements with process improvements, some great root cause problem solving by the team and clearer measurements that show where we have the most room to improve.

All in, we've seen meaningful progress on this front. In fact, this past quarter, the on-shelf availability of our 5,000 top items, the ones for which being in stock is most important to our guests and which represent 30% of our total unit sales saw a more than 150 basis point improvement compared to this time last year. But even with this meaningful progress, I want to emphasize that we have much more room to improve, and we're not slowing down.

An elevated store experience also means meeting our guests when, where and how they want to shop. To do this, we're reconfiguring the role each of our stores plays within a market to optimize fulfillment speed and capabilities and in the process, also better supporting the in-store shopping experience. Our pilot in the Chicago market has demonstrated the effectiveness of new operating models that govern each location's mix of in-store and digital fulfillment, helping to improve the guest experience and operational performance at each store at the same time. For those stores with high foot traffic volume, we're reducing their mix of brown box fulfillment, allowing those teams to spend more time interacting with in-store guests.

For lower volume stores in the same market with big back rooms that are perfectly suited to ship product, we're pushing more digital fulfillment volume their way and of course, more labor hours to support this work, creating economies of scale and a more optimized workload for each node within a market. With the changes we've made, we're getting guests the products they want faster than ever while reducing average fulfillment costs.

As a reminder, we already reach around 80% of the U.S. population with same-day delivery powered by Target Circle 360, where sales grew more than 35% again this past quarter and around 99% of the U.S. population is already eligible for 2-day shipping. And now with our evolving market fulfillment strategy that includes expanding these learnings to an additional 35 markets, more than half of the U.S. is eligible for next-day shipping, and we expect to meaningfully expand that reach in the coming year.

Elevating experience also means staying ahead of new ways our guests want to shop. We're leading in the next wave of digital engagement by partnering with the world's biggest Gen AI platforms through an initiative we call conversational curation. Building on the apps for ChatGPT experience previewed in early October, we're curating the shopping experience directly from the guests own conversation. Guests tell us what they want or even what they're trying to solve for, and OpenAI will offer personalized recommendations.

Through this partnership, we expect to be one of the first retailers on OpenAI platforms to offer the purchase of multiple items in a single transaction, offer fresh food products on the platform and the ability to choose drive up and pickup fulfillment options in addition to the conventional shipping options offered by others.

Finally, I'd like to touch on important investments that will drive both merchandising authority and an elevated experience. Our investments in new stores, store remodels and chain-wide category changes aimed at providing greater inspiration and joy for our guests every time they shop. Our new larger format stores are outpacing our initial sales expectations and continue to be a strong source of growth. Given current real estate opportunities, we expect to continue opening these bigger boxes in more and more markets across the U.S.

Additionally, we're formulating plans for next year that will bring greater changes to key floor pads throughout the store, which will accelerate both our merchandising authority and our experience. To support this change, we'll be increasing our CapEx plans for next fiscal year, spending about $5 billion, about $1 billion more than this year to bring the latest and greatest of Target to new and existing markets. Rick and Jim will have more to share on this in a moment.

So now before I get ready to pass things over to Rick, I want to thank the Target team. You power our progress, and it is together as a team that will write Target's next chapter. While we're not yet where we want to be, we're making change to lay the foundation for a stronger, faster and more innovative Target, one that's grounded in our purpose, fueled by our team and focused on growth.

I'm proud of the progress we've made and confident in the opportunities ahead. And to those of you listening this morning, if you leave having heard nothing else, I'd leave you with the following thoughts. We are not satisfied with our current results and are relentless in our pursuit of returning to growth. Our 3 priorities around merchandising, experience and technology have us on the right path, and we know what needs to be done and are actively making progress towards being the best version of ourselves for our guests, our team and our stakeholders.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Rick to share more about our third quarter performance and all we have planned for this holiday season.


Richard Gomez
Executive VP & Chief Commercial Officer

Thanks, Michael, and good morning, everyone. Our third quarter results underscore that we still have work to do, but they also show us that the actions we're taking are the right ones for our guests and for our business. We're focused on improving performance, particularly in discretionary categories, listening closely to our guests and moving with greater agility to bring them the newness and affordability they expect from Target.

In Q3, results were in line with expectations and similar to second quarter performance, with the exception of Q2 benefiting from the Nintendo Switch 2 launch. Q3 comp sales were down 2.7%, reflecting continued softness in discretionary categories like Home and Apparel, partially offset by growth in food and beverage and Fun 101. Digital comparable sales grew 2.4%, fueled by more than 35% growth in same-day delivery, powered by Target Circle 360 and continued growth in Drive Up. We saw the strongest sales around seasonal moments like Back-to-School, Back-to-College and Halloween, highlighting once again the importance of these holidays to our business.

Across categories, one theme is clear. Our guests continue to respond to newness and style forward assortments. Fun 101 delivered another quarter of growth, led by a nearly 10% comp in toys and double-digit growth in music, video games and our expanded selection of sporting equipment, all categories where we've invested in unique to Target assortments that are clearly resonating.

Food & Beverage also delivered another quarter of comp growth with notable strength in beverages, which were up nearly 7% in Q3 as guests leaned into our trend forward health and wellness assortment from prebiotic sodas to better-for-you energy drinks, we also saw strength in Candy categories, particularly as the Halloween holiday approached.

While Apparel comps were down 5%, we delivered meaningful growth in denim and sleepwear categories, driven by style forward newness that helped to offset softness across the portfolio. This tells us that while there is still plenty of work to do, where we have made our biggest bets in terms of on-trend design-led newness, consumers are reacting positively, giving us confidence in our approach and the path ahead.

Turning to the consumer. Many of the themes remain largely consistent with what we've shared in prior quarters. Guests are choiceful, stretching budgets and prioritizing value. They're spending where it matters most, especially in food, essentials and beauty, while looking for trend-right deals in discretionary categories. They want quality and price to coexist, something we do particularly well through our balance of must-have national brands, our exclusive owned brand portfolio and our curation of emerging brands.

As part of our work to solidify our merchandising authority, we will continue to elevate our assortment to lead with trend while always considering affordability and value. As we approach the holidays, we know consumers remain cautious. Sentiment is at a 3-year low amid concerns about jobs, affordability and tariffs. Yet they remain emotionally motivated. They want to celebrate with loved ones without overspending. Our job is to help them do just that.

Given our focus on affordability, we recently lowered prices on thousands of everyday food and essential items to help families further manage their budgets. And for the next major holiday around the corner, our Thanksgiving meal deal this year is one of our most affordable yet, feeding a family of 4 for less than $20, with Good & Gather turkey at just $0.79 per pound as well as potatoes, stuffing and other seasonal sides for less than $5.

And while we are, of course, standing tall for the traditional Thanksgiving fair, guests are also embracing new food trends like Good & Gather seasonal empanadas, Gourmet host gifts from Marks & Spencer, Stonewell Kitchen, Sugarfina and Hearth & Hand with Magnolia Table and new to Target brands like Little Spoon, Everyday Dose and Protein Pop. As a percentage of our total food and beverage sales, we are selling twice the volume of new products compared to the industry, a sign that our trend bets are paying off.

We're also accelerating newness in women's apparel, leaning into luxe fabrics and trending athleisure at affordable prices. Inspired by our sourcing trip to the Swiss Alps, our latest cashmere-like sweaters start at just $30 and deliver the on-trend casual yet cheek operate ski look. For athleisure fans, JoyLab is launching new patterns and fabrications in mid-December, earlier than ever this year, perfect for gifting or those new Year fitness goals.

In Holiday decor, we're offering upscale and festive design at unbeatable prices from contemporary collections to nostalgic Christmas classics. We have styles for every home. Ornaments start at $1, $3 and $5 price points with holiday throws at $10 and Reese and faux greenery at $12, bringing incredible design and quality within reach. And once the tree is trimmed, it's time to think about what goes under it. As I've shared before, trading cards have been a huge trend that we have been leaning into. And this holiday season, we will be offering new product drops nearly every week, including Pokémon, Magic: The Gathering, NFL, MLB and WNBA cards. This includes highly anticipated exclusives already hitting shelves and continuing to be released throughout December as well.

This year, we've also expanded our assortment of affordable and on-trend toys, including thousands under $20 with many starting at just $5. As the #1 market share player for LEGO, we are partnering with this iconic brand to offer exclusive to Target sets starting at just $10. And for Barbie fans of all ages, we're offering 2 exclusive Barbie collaborations with Joanna Gaines, a collectible doll and her perfectly designed townhouse to live in. All in, we are introducing 20,000 new items into this year's holiday assortment, twice as many as last year, with over half exclusive to Target.

Before turning it over to Jim, I want to share how Michael's new enterprise priorities are taking shape across our commercial organization. In partnership with the Enterprise Acceleration Office, we've been modernizing how our cross-functional teams support all buying decisions at Target, what we refer to as our merchant roundtable to clarify roles, streamline accountability and empower teams to make bold, data-driven decisions, allowing us to move faster and infuse newness into assortments more frequently.

But not all newness is created equal. It isn't just about offering new products for the sake of newness. It's about leaning into the emerging trends and culturally relevant moments. When we do, this is when we see the strongest reaction from our guests. For the perfect example, look no further than our Stranger Things 5 assortment. We have the largest assortment of exclusive products in retail in the U.S., along with throwback marketing campaigns that transport guests back to the 1980s nostalgia. Plus, we're dropping new items into the assortment every week to align with the new episode releases.

This is yet another example of the incredible work we are doing to reimagine our Hardlines assortment into Fun 101, a year-round celebration of culture, trend and style served up in an only at Target way. And next year, we're planning to take these learnings and make bold investments to transform the in-store shopping experience and assortment. In fact, we already have plans to introduce more changes to our stores than we have in any year in the past decade. We will have far more details to share at our financial community meeting this spring.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jim to walk through our third quarter financial results and updated expectations for the balance of the year.


James Lee
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Rick. Our financial results in Q3 were in line with our expectations as our team continues to focus on what we can control and manage the business with discipline despite continued softness on the top line, volatility in weekly and monthly trends and uncertainty in external environment. Third quarter net sales were 1.5% lower than a year ago, slightly better than our year-to-date performance, but about 60 basis points softer than in Q2.

Category sales trends were relatively consistent between Q2 and Q3, with the exception of Hardlines, where we saw continued growth but at a slower pace following an outsized boost from the launch of the Nintendo Switch 2 in the second quarter. Across our selling channels, comp sales in our stores were down about 4%, while comparable digital sales grew 2.4% on top of nearly 11% a year ago. Within our first-party digital sales, we saw mid-single-digit growth in our same-day services led by more than 35% growth in same-day delivery.

Beyond our first-party digital platform, we saw a significant step-up to nearly 50% growth in GMV of our Target Plus marketplace and mid-teens growth in Roundel ad sales, demonstrating the breadth and growing relevance of our digital ecosystem.

Top line results during the quarter were quite volatile with net sales close to flat in August and October and down about 4% in September. This pattern reinforces many of the consumer themes we've been highlighting for some time as guests shopped around Back-to-School and Back-to-College in August and around Halloween in October, but pulled back in September in between those key seasons. In addition, September Apparel sales were hampered by unusually warm weather across the country, while October benefited from the response to our most recent Target Circle Week as consumers continue to focus on value.

On the gross margin line, our Q3 rate of 28.2% was about 10 basis points lower than last year. Among the drivers, we saw about a percentage point of pressure in merchandising, reflecting the impact of higher markdowns. This pressure was offset by about 70 basis points of favorability from lower inventory shrink versus last year. In addition, we saw about 20 basis points of favorability from supply chain and digital fulfillment as the benefit of higher productivity and the lapping of last year's supply chain challenges was partially offset by the deleveraging impact of lower sales.

Regarding our outlook for inventory shrink, consistent with our prior commentary, we expect that shrink improvements will account for approximately 80 to 90 basis points of gross margin rate favorability for the full year. This would bring it fully back down to pre-pandemic levels, marking a dramatic turnaround over the last 2 years. One other note, our Q3 ending inventory was about 2% lower than a year ago. This is in line with recent trends in our Q4 sales outlook and reflects growth in our frequency businesses that was more than offset by lower levels in our discretionary businesses.

Moving back to our third quarter P&L. Our SG&A expense rate of 21.9% was about 60 basis points higher than a year ago. However, this rate reflected about 60 basis points of impact from onetime business transformation costs. Excluding these costs, our third quarter SG&A expense rate was approximately flat to last year.

On the bottom line, our business delivered third quarter GAAP EPS of $1.51 compared with $1.85 a year ago. Adjusted EPS, which excluded business transformation costs, was $1.78 in the third quarter, about 4% lower than a year ago. While this is far short of where we aspire to be over time, it is solid profit performance in a quarter where our top line was down more than 1% and reflects stronger relative performance versus the first half of the year, consistent with our prior commentary.

I'll turn now to capital deployment and reiterate our priorities, which we've consistently followed for decades. First, we look to fully invest in our business in projects that meet our strategic and financial criteria. Second, we look to support the dividend and build on our record of more than 50 years of consecutive annual increases. And finally, we look to deploy any excess cash beyond those first 2 uses to repurchase shares over time within the limits of our middle A credit ratings.

Regarding our first priority, we've invested about $2.8 billion in capital expenditures so far this year and continue to expect full year CapEx of around $4 billion. Regarding the second priority, we paid $518 million in dividends in Q3, which was $2 million higher than last year as a 1.8% increase in the per share dividend was mostly offset by a lower average share count. Regarding the last priority, we deployed just over $150 million to repurchase our shares in the third quarter following a pause in Q2.

While we ended the quarter with a healthy cash position and expect to have continued capacity within the limits of our middle A ratings, we'll continue to exercise caution in our repurchase program in the face of continued uncertainty in the external environment.

Now I want to turn to our outlook for the fourth quarter and the full year. While our Q3 results were consistent with our expectations, we continued to see a high degree of volatility in our business. In addition, we're mindful of the challenges facing consumers as exemplified by recent declines in consumer confidence. As such, while our top line expectations for Q4 are in line with our prior guidance and recent performance, we've narrowed our full year EPS ranges and moved our adjusted EPS range to the bottom half of the prior range. With that as context on the top line for the fourth quarter, we're continuing to expect a low single-digit decline in our comparable sales, in line with our year-to-date performance.

On the adjusted EPS line, our updated range is from $7 to $8 for the full year. The expected range for GAAP EPS is about $0.70 higher than for adjusted EPS, reflecting the benefit of the first quarter litigation settlement, partially offset by business transformation costs.

Against the backdrop of a very difficult environment, I am proud of the team's hard work this year to navigate a very high level of complexity, including their work to mitigate the impact of tariffs and navigate challenging consumer conditions. Over the past several months, we've also been hard at work to drive prioritization and outline key investments to return Target back to sustainable growth.

Looking ahead to next year, we expect to ramp up our capital spending meaningfully in support of our store experience and remodel program, a step-up in technology and digital fulfillment capabilities and investment in new stores. Our current plan envisions 2026 CapEx dollars increasing by approximately 25% or $1 billion versus 2025. In addition, we are planning to leverage a continuous pipeline of productivity initiatives and approximately $180 million of expected annualized savings from our recent business transformation efforts to invest in key areas in support of our 3 strategic priorities. We will share more details on our plans for 2026 and beyond at our Financial Community Meeting in March.

While we know there's much more work to do, I'm confident that we are rapidly moving in the right direction and positioning our business to get back to sustainable, profitable growth in the years ahead.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Michael.


Michael Fiddelke
Executive VP & COO

Thanks, Jim. Before Rick, Jim and I take your questions, I want to emphasize some of what you've heard from us today and to underscore where we're headed as a team. There is no question that this is a period of transformation for Target. The environment around us continues to evolve, whether it's shifting consumer demand, changing competitor dynamics or broader macroeconomic pressures. But let me be clear, we are not waiting for conditions to improve. We are driving the change ourselves right now.

We are taking bold, decisive steps to reshape how we work and reignite growth with urgency, focus and confidence in who we are and who we can be. We know what makes Target special, an unmatched merchandising authority and the ability to create joy through an elevated and inspiring guest experience, all enabled by the power of technology to amplify both speed and connection across every part of our business. These are more than ideas on a page. They are the pillars of our strategy, shaping every decision we make, and they are coming to life right now across the company.

We're hard at work to simplify how we work to make faster, smarter decisions. We're laser-focused on strengthening our foundation in our supply chain, our stores, our digital experience and our technology capabilities. We're relentlessly striving toward greater authority and merchandising by combining data-driven insight with the design leadership and creative spark that makes Target Target. And together, these actions are paving the way for what comes next, a return to sustainable, profitable growth.

While many out there have questions about where we'll go next, we are confident we're on the right path. That's because we're building from a strong foundation, a brand that guests love, a culture that's resilient and a team that's united behind a shared mission to help all families discover the joy of everyday life. As we look ahead, we're not just talking about getting back to growth. We're talking about building a stronger, more innovative Target that's ready to lead in the next era of retail, one that moves faster, connects deeper and stands taller in the hearts and minds of our guests.

And to our investors, partners and the financial community, thank you for your continued engagement. And if you're frustrated with our recent performance, we are too, and our entire team is working incredibly hard to return to growth and live up to our full potential.

Finally, in the spirit of thinking and working differently, I'm excited to share that this year's financial community meeting will take place right here in Minneapolis on March 3. It will be a peek behind the curtain to help bring to life what we've talked about today in a more tangible way, providing a firsthand look at how we're evolving our assortment and technology, all in service of returning to growth. We look forward to seeing you all in Minneapolis this spring, and we'll be sending out more information very soon.

And now we'll move to Q&A. Rick, Jim and I will be happy to take your questions.