The TJX Companies, Inc. (TJX) Q3 2026 Earnings Call November 19, 2025 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Ernie Herrman - CEO, President & Director
Debra McConnell - Senior Vice President of Global Communications
John Klinger - Senior Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Brooke Roach - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Paul Lejuez - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Alexandra Straton - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Lorraine Maikis - BofA Securities, Research Division
Irwin Boruchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Michael Binetti - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Corey Tarlowe - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Adrienne Yih-Tennant - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Mark Altschwager - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to The TJX Companies Third Quarter Fiscal 2026 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded, November 19, 2025.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Ernie Herrman, Chief Executive Officer and President of TJX Companies, Inc. Please go ahead, sir.

Ernie Herrman
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Courtney. Before we begin, Deb has some opening comments.

Debra McConnell
Senior Vice President of Global Communications

Thank you, Ernie, and good morning. Today's call is being recorded and includes forward-looking statements about our results and plans. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to vary materially from these statements, including, among others, the factors identified in our filings with the SEC. Please review our press release for a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements as well as the full safe harbor statements included in the Investors section of our website, tjx.com. We have also detailed the impact of foreign exchange on our consolidated results and our international division in today's press release and in the Investors section of tjx.com, along with reconciliations to non-GAAP measures we discuss. Thank you.

And now I'll turn it back over to Ernie.

Ernie Herrman
CEO, President & Director

Good morning. Joining me and Deb on the call is John. I'd like to start by thanking our global associates for working together to deliver our shoppers an exciting assortment of merchandise at excellent values every day. I truly appreciate their continued hard work and dedication to TJX.

Moving to our third quarter performance. I am extremely pleased that comp sales, profitability and earnings per share were all well above our plan. Our overall comp sales increase of 5% was driven by strong comp sales growth across each of our divisions. Clearly, our value proposition continue to resonate with consumers in the United States, Canada, Europe and Australia, and we are confident that we gain market share across each of these geographies. With our above-plan results in the third quarter, we are raising our full year guidance for sales and profitability. John will detail our results and guidance in a few minutes.

As to the fourth quarter, we are off to a strong start, and as always, we'll strive to beat our plans. I am very excited about the initiatives we have underway for the holiday season, and we are convinced that we will keep attracting shoppers to our retail banners. Availability of quality branded merchandise has been exceptional, and we are in an excellent position to flow a fresh assortment of goods to our stores and online. We feel great about the strength of our business and are confident that our flexibility, wide customer demographic and focus on value will continue to be a tremendous advantage.

I'll talk more about our fourth quarter opportunities in a moment. But first, I'll turn the call over to John to cover our third quarter results in more detail.

John Klinger
Senior Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Ernie. I also want to add my gratitude to all of our associates for their continued hard work and commitment to TJX. Now I'll share some additional details on the third quarter. As Ernie mentioned, our consolidated comp sales growth of 5% came in well above our plan. This was driven by a combination of a higher average basket and an increase in customer transactions. Further, we saw strong comp increases in both our apparel and home categories. Third quarter pretax profit margin of 12.7% was up 40 basis points versus last year and well above our plan. Gross margin increased 100 basis points versus last year. This was due to an increase in merchandise margin primarily driven by lower freight costs, expense efficiencies and expense leverage on sales. Importantly, we are very pleased with our mitigation strategies, which allowed us to offset all the tariff pressure we saw in the third quarter.

SG&A increased 60 basis points versus last year. This was due to incremental store wage and payroll costs, a contribution to the TJX Foundation and higher incentive compensation accruals. Net interest income negatively impacted pretax profit margin by 10 basis points versus last year. Third quarter diluted earnings per share of $1.28 increased 12% versus last year and was also well above our expectations.

Lastly, we are extremely pleased with our third quarter pretax profit margin came in 60 basis points above the high end of our plan. In the third quarter, merchandise margin was stronger than we expected driven by lower freight costs, and we saw a benefit from expense leverage on the above-plan sales. Further, with our above-plan results, we had higher incentive compensation accruals and made a contribution to the TJX Foundation.

Now to the third quarter divisional performance. At Marmaxx, comp sales grew by an outstanding 6% with strong increases in both our apparel and home businesses. It was also great to see strength in our store performance across all regions and income demographics, which speaks to the broad-based appeal of our values. The comp increase was driven by a higher average basket and growth in customer transactions. Marmaxx's segment profit margin was 14.9%, up 60 basis points versus last year. We were also pleased with the results at our Sierra stores and U.S. e-commerce businesses, which we report as part of this division. We are extremely pleased with Marmaxx's momentum and continue to see terrific opportunities for our largest division to grow its footprint and capture additional market share.

At HomeGoods, we continue to see very strong sales momentum with comp sales up 5%. Segment profit margin improved to 13.5%, up 120 basis points versus last year. With our highly differentiated mix of home fashions from around the world at our HomeGoods and HomeSense banners, we are confident that consumers will continue to be drawn to our stores. Further, we see a significant opportunity to further grow our store base and attract more customers, which we believe will allow us to capture a bigger piece of the U.S. home market.

TJX Canada's comp sales increased an outstanding 8%. Segment profit margin on a constant currency basis was 14.9%, down 20 basis points versus last year which was driven by unfavorable transactional foreign exchange. As the leading off-price retailer in Canada, our Winners, HomeSense and Marshalls banners have excellent brand awareness and strong customer loyalty. We believe our position as a top retailer -- value retailer in Canada sets us up very well to continue our growth in this country for many years to come.

At TJX International, comp sales grew 3% with increases in both Europe and Australia. Segment profit margin on a constant currency basis increased to 9.2%, up a very strong 190 basis points versus last year. We are convinced that we will continue to gain market share across both Europe and Australia. Looking ahead, we're excited about our growth plans in our existing countries and our planned entry into Spain in the spring of 2026.

Moving to inventory. Balance sheet inventory was up 12% and inventory on a per store basis was up 8% versus last year as we've been buying into the excellent opportunities for quality branded merchandise we've been seeing in the marketplace. Availability of quality merchandise has been terrific, and we are strongly positioned to flow fresh assortments to our stores and online this holiday season. As to capital allocation, we continue to reinvest in the growth of the business while returning $1.1 billion to shareholders through our buyback and dividend programs in the third quarter.

Now I'll turn it back to Ernie.

Ernie Herrman
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, John. Now I'd like to highlight some of the opportunities that we see to drive sales and transactions in the fourth quarter. First, I'm convinced that our retail banners will be a shopping destination for value-conscious shoppers this holiday season. As always, we believe consumers will see compelling values throughout the store every time they visit us. We see this as a major differentiator as our customers can shop our excellent values every day and not have to wait for sales or promotional days like they do for many other retailers.

Second, we believe we are strongly positioned to be a top destination for gifts. With the excellent availability of merchandise we have been seeing, we are confident that we will have a very exciting assortment of gifts this holiday season. Importantly, we plan to have gifting options across good, better and best brands so our shoppers can find something for everyone on their list at prices that fit their budget. Additionally, after the holidays, we will remain focused on being a gifting destination year-round.

Next, we will be flowing fresh selections to our stores and online multiple times a week throughout the holiday season. We believe this differentiates us from many other major retailers as our ever-changing mix of merchandise allows shoppers to see a new assortment every time they visit. Further, we believe this may encourage shoppers to visit our stores more frequently to see what's new. I am also excited about our post-holiday initiatives to transition our stores to the categories and trends that we believe consumers want.

Lastly, we are excited about our holiday marketing campaigns. We recently launched our campaigns across a variety of media channels with an emphasis on digital. At every division, we believe our campaigns position us as a destination for holiday decor and inspiring gifts at terrific values. Further, we are targeting a wide consumer demographic to emphasize that our values are available to all shoppers to all our shoppers every day. We believe our campaigns will keep our retail brands top of mind and may encourage cross-shopping of our banners and attract new customers this holiday season.

Now I'd like to quickly summarize the key reasons why I am so confident that we are in an excellent position to continue our global growth and increase market share over the short and long term. First, we are convinced that consumers will continue to seek out value. Our value proposition of brand, fashion, quality and price sets us apart from many other retailers and has served us extremely well through many kinds of retail and economic environments over the course of our nearly 50-year history.

Second, we successfully operate stores across a very wide customer demographic. We curate each of our stores individually to appeal to shoppers across various income and age demographics. Further, we continue to see our customer growth driven by both -- by attracting and retaining shoppers across age groups. Next, we are confident that the flexibility of our buying, planning and allocation, store formats, systems and supply chain will continue to be a key advantage.

Fourth, we still see significant store growth ahead with a long-term store target of 7,000 stores just for our current countries and Spain. Additionally, with our joint venture in Mexico and investment in the Middle East, we have further expanded our off-price reach around the world. All of this gives us great confidence that we have a tremendous opportunity to capture additional market share globally.

Fifth, I am extremely confident that there will be more than enough quality branded inventory in the marketplace to support our growth plans. As a growing retailer around the world, vendors can use our nearly 5,200 stores as a way to clear excess inventory, grow their business and introduce their brands to new consumers.

Next, we are convinced that the appeal of in-store shopping is here to stay. We see our treasure hunt shopping experience as an important advantage and believe it will continue to resonate with consumers. Further, we make it very easy for our customers to shop our banners by locating our stores in convenient, easy-to-access locations and offering them the ability to shop multiple categories across our store very quickly.

Most importantly, I truly believe the depth of off-price knowledge and expertise within TJX is unmatched. We have many leaders across the company with decades of off-price experience who are laser-focused on driving the current business at a very high level while also teaching and developing the next generation of TJX leaders. We also have a very deep bench, which gives us the ability to rotate talent between divisions and geographies. Finally, I am so proud of our culture, which I believe has been a major contributor to our long history of strong performance.

Summing up, we are extremely pleased with the overall performance of TJX in the third quarter and the momentum of the business entering the holiday season. I am so proud of the continued execution of our teams around the world and their relentless focus on our value commitment to our shoppers. We remain convinced that we have significant opportunities for growth and believe we can continue to capture market share around the world for many years to come.

Finally, I am pleased to share that during the third quarter, we published our 2025 Global Corporate Responsibility Report. The report covers our ongoing work across four key areas: workplace, communities, environmental sustainability and responsible sourcing. We invite you to learn more by visiting our website, tjx.com.

Now I'll turn the call back to John to cover our fourth quarter and full year guidance, and then we'll open it up for questions. John?

John Klinger
Senior Executive VP & CFO

Thanks again, Ernie. I'll start with our fourth quarter guidance where we are planning overall comp sales to increase 2% to 3%. Consolidated sales to be in the range of $17.1 billion to $17.3 billion. Pretax profit margin to be in the range of 11.7% to 11.8%, up 10 to 20 basis points versus last year's 11.6%. Gross margin to be in the range of 30.5% to 30.6%, flat to up 10 basis points versus last year. SG&A to be in the range of 18.9%, which would be 30 basis points favorable versus last year. We're assuming net interest income of $26 million, which we expect to delever fourth quarter pretax profit margin by 10 basis points. Our fourth quarter guidance also assumes a tax rate of 25.4% and a weighted average share count of approximately 1.12 billion shares. Based on these assumptions, we expect fourth quarter diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.33 to $1.36, up 8% to 11% versus last year's $1.23.

Moving to the full year. We now expect overall comp sales to increase by 4%. We are increasing our full year consolidated sales guidance to a range of $59.7 billion to $59.9 billion. This increase reflects the flow-through of the above-plan sales in the third quarter. We are increasing our full year pretax profit margin guidance to 11.6%, up 10 basis points versus last year's 11.5%.

Moving to gross margin. We now expect it to be 30.9%, up 30 basis points versus last year's 30.6%. We now expect full year SG&A to be 19.5%, a 10 basis points unfavorable versus last year. We're assuming net interest income of $111 million, which we expect to delever fiscal '26 pretax profit margin by 10 basis points. Our full year guidance assumes a tax rate of 24.5% and weighted average share count of approximately 1.13 billion shares. As a result of these assumptions, we're increasing our full year diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $4.63 to $4.66, up 9% versus last year's diluted earnings per share of $4.26.

In terms of tariffs, we're assuming that the current level of tariffs on imports into the U.S. will stay in place for the remainder of the year. As such, our guidance assumes that we will be able to continue to offset the tariff pressure on our business in the fourth quarter. In closing, I want to reiterate Ernie's confidence in our plans for the remainder of the year and our long-term opportunities going forward. I want to emphasize that we will -- that we remain in an excellent position to continue to invest in the growth of our company while simultaneously returning cash to our shareholders.

Now we're happy to take your questions. As a reminder, please limit your questions to one per person so we can answer as many questions as we can. Thanks, and now we'll open it up to questions.