Tencent Music Entertainment Group (TME) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 12, 2025 6:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Millicent T. - Head of IR
Kar Shun Pang - Executive Chairman
Liang Zhu - CEO & Director
Min Hu - CFO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Yang Liu - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Lincoln Kong - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Alicis a Yap - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Thomas Chong - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Yifan Ye - CLSA Limited, Research Division

Presentation

Millicent T.
Head of IR

Good evening and good morning, and welcome to Tencent Music Entertainment Group's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. I'm Millicent T., Head of IR. We announced our quarterly financial results earlier today before the U.S. market open. The earnings release is now available on our IR website and via Newswire services.

During today's call, you'll hear from Mr. Cussion Pang, our Executive Chairman; and Mr. Ross Liang, our CEO, who will share an overview of our company's strategies and business updates. Then Ms. Shirley Hu, our CFO, will discuss our financial results before we open the call for questions.

Before we continue, I refer you to the safe harbor statement in our earnings release, which applies to this call as we make forward-looking statements. Please note that we will discuss non-IFRS measures today, which are more thoroughly explained and reconciled to the most comparable measures reported under IFRS and our earnings release and filings with the SEC. [Operator Instructions] And please be advised that today's call is being recorded.

With that, I'm very pleased to turn the call over to Cussion, Executive Chairman of TME. Cussion, please.

Kar Shun Pang
Executive Chairman

Thank you, Millicent. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining our call today. In the third quarter, we delivered another set of strong financial results, underpinned by the well-rounded performance of our online music business. Our ongoing innovations across content, services and live experience continue to fuel steady growth in our subscription business, while pushing momentum in non-subscription revenue, particularly in concerts and artist merchandise.

Backed by our strong financial position and operational excellence, we are posted to further broaden our music service, unlock new growth opportunities and create greater value for artists, partners and users across the entire music industry.

Now let me share some highlights from this quarter. First, we further enriched our content coverage to include more offerings in different music genres and languages. For example, in Pop music, we renewed the contract with dramas, a leading Korean naval and partnerships with [indiscernible] studio strengthening our collection of top hits.

To better serve users' passions for game-related music, we partnered with Tencent Games to coproduce Atlas of Tomorrow, [indiscernible] the 10th anniversary theme song performed by JJ Lin for Honor of Kings performed as the final at the Honor of Kings' 10th anniversary co-creation night, the song quickly garnered over 600 million social media mentions within 2 weeks of its release, engaged 280 cultural and tourism authorities nationwide, standing out as one of the year's most impactful game soundtracks.

We also collaborated with Blizzard Entertainment for the first time and introduced 50 original soundtracks from iconic game titles, including World of Warcraft, [indiscernible] and Hearthstone. To further Enrich Anime and K-pop music categories, we established strategic partnerships with renowned Japanese ACG label, King Records and Korean Label Serial, offering popular Anime songs and OSTs from his dramas such as Boys Over Flowers, [Heirs] Second, during the quarter, we successfully staged several large-scale international concerts and events, extending our reach beyond borders to tap into the international market opportunities.

A prime example is the concert tour that we hosted for leading Korean artist, G-Dragon. G-Dragon 2025 World Tour, Ubermensch, building on our success in the second quarter. This time, we put on 14 additional show of shows for him across 6 cities, including Sydney, Melbourne and Kuala Lumpur, drawing over 150,000 attendees.

The popularity of the tour lead to acceleration of live concert revenue growth, demonstrating our strength in delivering world-class entertainment experiences. Our annual flagship TMEA concert was another success and highlight for the quarter. The event featured 35 different artists and groups and drew more than 10,000 attendees, underscoring its strategic importance as a well-anticipated premier gathering within the music industry.

Building on the momentum from TMEA, this year, we broke new ground and introduced another flagship concert IP, TME Live International Music Awards, TIMA, to celebrate the achievements of international artists and showcase their talents. The inaugural TIMA featured 22 global renowned artists and groups from China and a number of Asian countries, including famous [indiscernible] SMTR25, the 2-day events immersed over 20,000 attendees in a vibrant atmosphere.

We also organized and delivered several major concert tools for well-known artists like [indiscernible] The success of these shows illustrates TME's strength and impact in [bottling] artist fan bases, especially through interactions with younger audience. For instance, in Guy's most recent shows in Chongqing, through integrated online and offline promotional resources, we helped him attract more than 40,000 attendees, up from 10,000 in a single event in the third quarter.

This marked a successful upgrade in concert scale, moving from arena level to stadium level. Together, these remarkable events have laid a solid foundation for TME to continue to grow at scale as we further build out our performance pipeline, we are confident that there will be more exciting opportunities home and abroad to deliver large-scale and immersive live music experiences for users.

Third, we continue to break new ground with artist partnerships, providing them with holistic support and leveraging our increasing promotional capability to enrich artist-centric offerings. For instance, during the quarter, we partnered with Tencent's hit title, Crossfire to produce new song COPDD by seamlessly integrating this song into the game ecosystem and allowing users to earn in-game items through listening task.

We amplified its impact. The track sold to #2 on the QQ Music New Song chart within 2 days of its release. As another example, in this quarter, we premiered Lejiang's new digital album Rock the Heavenly Palace together with collectible cart packages. This innovative approach not only boosted participations, but also lead the album to rank among the top of the 2025 bestseller charts. The production and release of Bai Lu's first physical album, My Odyssey, featuring 2 distinct version designs marked another success.

The album earned strong acclaim from fans and achieved outstanding sales performance. All of the above examples illustrate the power and flywheel of our content and platform dual engine, supported by our massive user base, fueled by expanding content ecosystem and constant innovation, we have reinforced the virtuous cycle, allowing us to design diverse services to address users' needs with user interactions deepening and community engagement strengthening, it boost the reach of quality content on our platform, and attracts more attention from artists and labels, both home and abroad, fueling the sustainable growth of our ecosystem.

Last but not least, on ESG, for 7 consecutive years, we have proudly won the Music Garden Space Public Welfare Program, partnering with singers and teachers to support music education in rural areas. This year, we invited WeSing users to redeem their points accumulated through incentive [ads] to directly support the program, sparkling greater users' interest.

Over 380,000 participants took apart. Looking ahead, we will continue to leverage our dual engine strategy, explore new opportunities and expand our reach. Building a seamless [ribbon] all-in-one music service platform for music lovers.

Now I would like to hand it over to Ross for a deeper dive into our overall platform development. Ross, please go ahead. Thank you.

Liang Zhu
CEO & Director

Thank you, Cussion. Hello, everyone. Our music ecosystem continued to strive in the third quarter, benefiting from our profound user insights and operational excellence. As we focus on enhancing the value proposition for user, this quarter, we achieved a steady growth in [indiscernible] penetration and ARPPU.

We are also building a diversified product portfolio catering to different user cohorts to effectively expand our platform's reach to a broader audience. To this end, our commitment to harnessing AI to elevate users' experiences continue to import us to remain at the forefront of delighting music users.

First, on system integration, we were among the first to support Apple's Liquid Glass mode in iOS '26 and introduced Liquid Glass themes and players on Android for optimized visual effects and better interactions. We also fully adapted our app for HarmonyOS with core music features now largely aligned with what we offer on Android. Second, we upgraded player interactive features and AI-powered functionalities. For example, we embedded more enlighting designs and tokens on the playback page, creating delightful thread across new touch points, which also proved effective in new song promotions.

We also pioneered multimode sound transition feature, Automix, offering seamless remix and a more immersive streaming experience.

To effectively deepen engagement, we expanded our AI-powered [lyrics] card feature, newly covering over 200 leading artists. The card collecting process is full of [threats ] and fun, driving sharing among users and increased user activeness. Our upgraded AI assistant allows users to generate a personalized playlist with just one type or easily create their own original music.

This has significantly lowered the barrier to creative expression and helped increase content consumption through recommendation. We are here to serve and delight. As a result, users can unlock additional tools to and perks from our multipoint membership offerings, whether a freemium user, a deeper value add member or a standard subscriber.

We provide a different services to cater to the distinct needs of users. In fact, recently, we started to see an increasing values of freemium users upgrading to add members, which also led to increased time spent. For those looking to experience the [IRT] made service, our SIP offers an unparalleled range of freemium features, which have been crucial in driving SIP adoption rate and average spend.

Its penetration and ARPPU expanded both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter as we introduced new privileges and innovative services that strengthened its value proposition and inspire the music appreciation in new ways.

A new highlights to share. First, Premium Sound qualities remain our key draw for [indiscernible] as we accelerated its results. QQ Music newly introduced DTS Booming External Speaker became the top convention driver among audio qualities. Viper Ultra Sound 2.0 Kugou Music with its improved sound quality, sound [clarity] and reduced data usage also proved to be highly effective in retaining [SVIP] loyalty. Second, our insight into content and user propelled us to provide creative offerings, which in turn helped boost [SVIP] uptake.

For example, the digital album, an integral part of our content ecosystem remains effective at [SVIP] commission. Members highly appreciate their privileges access to digital albums alongside limited edition, collectible [NFC] cards. Notable collaborations this quarter include [indiscernible] self-titled Japanese EP, which significantly boosted [SVIP] commissions.

Another example is Starlight cards. In the third quarter, we rolled out new Starlight cards featuring popular artists such as Fiona Sit, Asper, Idol, and Things in Times [Shinei Nouzen] which instantly became a big draw. We have also expanded artist partnerships to include more international musicians, including [indiscernible] Japan's [indiscernible] Western artist [Jake] replicating our success domestically.

We recently expanded our Starlight card offerings to the Hong Kong and Thailand market through our music platform [indiscernible]. Third, we rolled out several target initiatives to reinforce the artist fan connection and strengthen user loyalty through [bubble]. We expanded our artist rotors by onboarding over a dozen musicians from domestic labels such as Huxia, [NexT1DE] and [Ride] giving more fans the chance to interact directly with their favorite artists online.

This in turn attracted broad, broader user base. We leveraged AI to further localize the bubble features and functionalities, leading to improved user retention. The new and upgraded features include in-app translation and speak to text capabilities empowered by large AI models as well as desktop [short cars] for quickly and spontaneous access.

We also launched limited edition budgets to celebrate key artist moments such as new sound release, birthdays and debut anniversaries. This compliment by [indiscernible] perks helped strengthen emotion ties between artists and fans, resulting in improved retention and engagement.

In summary, we are pleased with the progress we have made in enhancing the value of an increasingly diverse user base. Moving forward, we remain committed to further enhancing our core strength and platform efficiency. We are well positioned to continue to shape the industry from music creation to enjoyment.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Shirley, our CFO, for a deep dive into our financials.

Min Hu
CFO & Director

Thank you, Ross, and greetings, everyone. Let me now turn to our financial results. In Q3 2025, our total revenues grew 21% year-on-year to RMB 8.5 billion, marking the highest revenue growth since Q1 2021. This was resulted from continued growth momentum in music subscriptions, together with robust growth in offline performances, advertising services and artist-related merchandise sales.

Online music revenues grew over 27% year-on-year to RMB 7 billion. Music subscription revenues grew 70% year-on-year to RMB 4.5 billion in Q3 2025 driven by continued growth in monthly ARPPU and subscriber base.

Monthly ARPPU reached RMB 11.9 this quarter compared to RMB 10.8 in the same period of last year, primarily driven by expansion in SVIP membership program. This quarter, we continue to broaden and strengthen the SVIP benefits. For example, QQ Music newly introduced the DTS Booming External Speaker and we expanded Starlight cards with more popular artists, both are features to drive SVIP adoption.

Additionally, our multiprolonged membership offerings across ADS membership, standard memberships and SVIP membership also contributed to improved user engagement and conversation.

All of these efforts have laid down the foundation for the health growth of our subscription business. Advertising revenue continued its strong growth trajectory on a year-on-year basis, primarily driven by more diversified product portfolio and innovative [ad] formats such as ad-supported model.

Offline performances and artist-related merchandise sales delivered triple-digit year-on-year revenue growth this quarter in Q3. We successfully hold multiple concerts, both domestically and internationally. In overseas market, we hosted 14 shows for G-Dragon across 6 cities, achieving robust ticket sales. In domestic market, we successfully hosted concerts for high-profile artists such as [indiscernible].

In addition, we provided a concert-related merchandise sales during the concert, which opened more artist connection opportunities and in turn, contributed to the revenue growth in artist-related merchandise sales. Social entertainment service and other revenues were RMB 1.5 billion, down by 3% year-on-year. Our gross margin in Q3 2025 was 43.5%, up 0.9 percentage points year-on-year.

The increase was mainly attributable to strong growth in music subscription and advertising revenues alongside a lower revenue sharing ratio in social entertainment services. At the same time, new growth areas such as off-line performances and artist-related merchandise sales have lower gross margin. The revenue mix shift may cause gross margin fluctuations in different periods. Diversification in revenues offers the possibility for further growth in our revenue and gross profit and help us cultivate a more comprehensive one-stop music services ecosystem.

Moving on to operating expenses. They amounted to RMB 1.3 billion, representing 15.5% of our total revenues in Q3 2025 compared with 70.4% in the same period of last year. Selling and marketing expenses were RMB 216 million, up by 18% year-on-year, primarily due to higher content promotion expenses and channel spending. We keep monitoring market conditions and increase spending as needed with financial discipline.

General and administrative expenses were RMB 1.05 billion, up by 5% year-on-year, primarily due to growth in employee-related expenses. Our effective tax rate for Q3 2025 was 70.7% and remained relatively stable compared with ET in the same period of 2024. We accrued withholding income tax of RMB 118 million this quarter. For Q3, our net profit increased by 29% to RMB 2.2 billion and net profit attributable to equity holders of the company increased by 36% to RMB 2.2 billion.

Non-IFRS net profit increased by 28% to RMB 2.5 billion and non-IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders of the company increased by 33% to RMB 2.4 billion. Our diluted earnings per ADS this quarter was RMB [1.38] up by 37% year-on-year. And the non-IFRS diluted earnings per ADS was RMB 1.44, up by 33% year-on-year.

As of September 30, 2025, our combined balances of cash, cash equivalents, term deposits and short-term investments were RMB 36.1 billion as compared to RMB 34.9 billion as of June 30, 2025. This combined balance was impacted by the repayment of USD 300 million for the same year unsecured lots in Q3 2025 and it was also affected by changes in the exchange rate of RMB to USD at different balance sheet dates.

Looking forward, we will put more efforts in IP cultivation and self-product content while keeping product innovation to foster a vibrant and comprehensive music ecosystem. With solid growth in our core business and increased product diversification such as offline performance and artist-related merchandise, we are well positioned and are confident in the high-quality growth of our business.

This concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, we are ready to open the call for questions.