Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Rafael Tejada - Vice President of Investor Relations
Marc Casper - Chairman, President & CEO
Stephen Williamson - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Michael Ryskin - BofA Securities, Research Division
Daniel Arias - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Jack Meehan - Nephron Research LLC
Matthew Larew - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Casey Woodring - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Daniel Brennan - TD Cowen, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Thermo Fisher Scientific 2025 Fourth Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to introduce our moderator for the call, Mr. Rafael Tejada, Vice President, Investor Relations. Mr. Tejada, you may begin the call.

Rafael Tejada
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning, and thank you for joining us. On the call with me today is Marc Casper, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Stephen Williamson, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on the Investors section of our website, thermofisher.com, under the heading, News, Events and Presentations until April 22, 2026. A copy of the press release of our fourth quarter and full year 2025 earnings is available in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financials. So before we begin, let me briefly cover our safe harbor statement. Various remarks that we may make about the company's future expectations, plans and prospects constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable securities laws.

Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the heading Risk Factors. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and speak only as of the date they are made. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even in the event of new information, future developments or otherwise.

Also, during this call, we will be referring to certain financial measures not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available in the press release of our fourth quarter and full year 2025 earnings and also in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financials.

So with that, I'll now turn the call over to Marc.

Marc Casper
Chairman, President & CEO

Thank you, Raf. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today for our fourth quarter call. As you saw in our press release, we delivered a strong year, capped off by an excellent fourth quarter. Our results reflect outstanding execution from the team, the strength of our proven growth strategy and excellent operational performance enabled by our PPI Business System. Looking to the year ahead, we entered 2026 from a position of strength as the market leader serving attractive end markets. Our growth strategy is resonating with customers, and our PPI Business System will enable us to continue to deliver excellent operational performance.

To recap our 2025 financial performance, starting with the quarter. Revenue grew 7% year-over-year to $12.21 billion. Adjusted operating income grew 6% to $2.88 billion. Adjusted operating margin was 23.6% and adjusted EPS grew 8% to $6.57 per share. Now turning to our full year results. Revenue grew 4% to $44.56 billion. Adjusted operating income grew 4% to $10.11 billion. Adjusted operating margin was 22.7% and adjusted EPS grew 5% to $22.87 per share. As I reflect on the year, first, the environment evolved differently than everyone had envisioned entering 2025.

We actively managed the company, and our team responded with agility, effectively managing tariffs and the U.S. policy dynamics to deliver a very strong year. As a trusted partner, we work closely with our customers, helping them navigate the landscape and enabling their success. Let me now turn to our performance by end market and provide some context on how the quarter and full year played out. Starting with pharma and biotech, we delivered high single-digit growth in Q4 and mid-single digits for the full year. Performance in the quarter was led by continued strong growth in our bioproduction business as well as our research and safety market channel.

As expected, our clinical research business continues to strengthen, delivering mid-single-digit growth in the quarter. For the full year, revenue growth was broad-based and was highlighted by strong performance in bioproduction, research and safety market channel, analytical instruments and pharma services businesses. In academic and government, throughout the year, performance in this end market was impacted by the macro conditions in the U.S. and China. We declined in the low single digits during the quarter and for the full year. In industrial and applied, we declined in the low single digits during the quarter and grew in the low single digits for the full year. Growth during the year was highlighted by strong performance in our research and safety market channel as well as our electron microscopy business.

Finally, in Diagnostics and Healthcare, we delivered low single-digit growth in Q4, reflecting good performance across our Specialty Diagnostics businesses. For the full year, growth in this end market was flat with strong contributions from our transplant diagnostics and immunodiagnostics businesses. Thanks to our proven growth strategy and our team's excellent execution, we delivered a strong finish to the year across our end markets and continue to drive meaningful share gain. Let me now turn to our growth strategy. As a reminder, our growth strategy consists of 3 pillars: high-impact innovation, our trusted partner status with customers and our unparalleled commercial engine.

In 2025, we meaningfully advanced the position of the company, becoming even more relevant for our customers and enhancing our competitive position. Let me call out some key highlights for the year, starting with innovation. 2025 was another outstanding year of innovation as we launched a number of high-impact products across our businesses that strengthen our industry leadership and enable our customers to accelerate breakthroughs and enhance their productivity. In chromatography and mass spectrometry, we launched the Thermo Scientific Orbitrap Astral Zoom. Building on the success of the Astral mass spectrometer, Astral Zoom delivers even greater sensitivity, speed and depth of coverage, enabling researchers to uncover new biological insights and advance precision medicine.

Customer adoption and feedback have been extremely strong as the platform represents a significant leap forward in mass spectrometry, enabling researchers around the world to accelerate discovery and advance the pace of scientific breakthroughs. In bioproduction, we expanded our single-use portfolio with the launch of the Thermo Scientific 5-liter DynaDrive single-use bioreactor, offering pharma and biotech customers increased workflow efficiencies and the ability to seamlessly scale up manufacturing of new therapies. In electron microscopy, we delivered a series of high-impact innovations across life sciences and advanced materials. This included the Thermo Scientific Krios 5 Cryo-TEM, which is advancing structural biology by enabling faster, higher-resolution insights to support drug discovery and development.

In the fourth quarter, we launched the Thermo Scientific Helios MX1 plasma-focused ion beam SEM, a fully automated semiconductor analysis system designed to accelerate time to data for yield ramp and fab process control. In clinical next-gen sequencing, it's great to see the growing application of our Ion Torrent Oncomine Dx Target Test as a companion diagnostic. During the quarter, this technology received another FDA approval this time as a companion diagnostic for Bayer's new therapy targeted for certain patients with non-small cell lung cancer. In clinical diagnostics, we also achieved U.S. 510(k) clearance for the EXENT System, a first-of-its-kind automated platform that enables earlier and more confident diagnosis for patients with multiple myeloma and related disorders.

So another spectacular year of innovation, and we also have an exciting pipeline of launches in 2026 that positions us well for the future. Let me turn to our trusted partner status and industry-leading commercial engine, which we continue to strengthen in 2025. Our trusted partner status with customers has built -- has been built over many years by anticipating, understanding and meeting their needs. Increasingly, customers are relying on us, not just for technologies and services, but for our expertise and deep understanding of how to apply them to enable their success. We help our customers accelerate innovation and improve their productivity.

You've heard me talk about our accelerator drug development solution throughout the year. It's a terrific example of one of our unique capabilities. As a reminder, Accelerator is our integrated CDMO and CRO offering that brings together the strengths of our pharma services and clinical research businesses to help customers reduce development time lines, improve decision-making and enhance returns on their R&D investment. In 2025, we secured meaningful wins for our clinical research and pharma services businesses and continue to see outstanding customer adoption. During the year, we also expanded and deepened strategic partnerships that create value for our customers and our company.

This included a technology alliance with the Chan Zuckerberg Institute for Advanced Biological Imaging to develop new technologies to better visualize human cells. We also announced a strategic collaboration with OpenAI aimed at increasing our use of artificial intelligence at the company. This will improve productivity across our operations and also allow us to embed AI capabilities in our products and services to accelerate scientific breakthroughs and advance the drug development process. In addition, we continue to expand our global footprint to better support customers.

During the fourth quarter, this included the expansion of our bioprocess design centers in Asia with the opening of a new site in India. So as you can see, it was another excellent year of advancing our growth strategy. Let me now turn to capital deployment. We continue to successfully execute our proven capital deployment strategy, which is a combination of strategic M&A and returning capital to shareholders. 2025 was a very active year as we advanced our strategy and added exciting new capabilities that further strengthen our long-term competitive position and create value for all of our stakeholders. During the year, we deployed approximately $16.5 billion, including committing $13 billion to M&A and returning $3.6 billion to shareholders through stock buybacks and dividends.

In terms of M&A, we completed the acquisition of our filtration and separation business from Solventum. The addition of filtration is a natural extension of our bioproduction capabilities, where we have leadership in cell culture media and single-use technologies, along with a rapidly growing purification business. Our pharma and biotech customers see real value in Thermo Fisher offering these filtration capabilities for their manufacturing processes. The integration is going smoothly, and our new colleagues are thrilled to be part of Thermo Fisher Scientific.

This year, we also expanded our U.S. drug product manufacturing footprint through the acquisition of Sanofi's state-of-the-art sterile fill-finish site in New Jersey. Both of these acquisitions enhance our ability to support our customers' growing production needs. During the fourth quarter, we also announced a definitive agreement to acquire Clario. The company is a market leader in digital endpoint data solutions, one of the fastest-growing areas and an essential capability in drug development and clinical research. In 2025, the business generated approximately $1.25 billion in revenue. Its differentiated technology and deep medical expertise together enable unique capabilities in generating and delivering digital endpoint data for clinical trials.

The business is an outstanding strategic fit, highly valued by our customers and complementary to our clinical research capabilities. By adding Clario's high-growth capabilities, over time, we will be able to deliver even deeper clinical insights for our customers and further accelerate the digital transformation of clinical research. This is an incredibly exciting opportunity to help our pharma and biotech customers improve the return on investment of the drug development process. Financially, the transaction has an attractive double-digit return profile, is expected to be accretive to organic revenue growth and to adjusted operating margin.

We expect it to be accretive to adjusted EPS by approximately $0.45 in the first 12 months of ownership, and we expect to close the transaction by the middle of 2026. So overall, an active and high-impact year of capital deployment. Let me now turn to our PPI Business System. In 2025, PPI continued to be a critical enabler of our performance. Throughout the year, we leveraged PPI to actively manage our cost base, drive operational excellence and deliver strong earnings growth while continuing to invest to strengthen our long-term competitive position. PPI enabled us to operate with agility and discipline as we navigated the environment and delivered excellent results for our customers and shareholders. PPI is deeply embedded in our culture and empowers colleagues across the company to find a better way every day.

That's why we're also increasingly using artificial intelligence into PPI, which will further enhance its impact across the organization. The combination is helping us improve how we serve customers, streamline internal processes and operate the company more effectively, strengthening execution today and positioning us well for the future. Before I wrap up on 2025, I want to briefly touch on the progress we made with our corporate social responsibility priorities. Part of our mission-driven culture is a focus on making a positive impact on society by supporting our communities and being a good steward of our planet. You can read more about this on our website, but I'll share a couple of highlights.

In terms of the environmental stewardship, we increased the use of renewable energy across our global operations and expanded the number of sites achieving zero waste certification, keeping us on track with our long-term sustainability commitments. We also continue to launch more sustainable products to help our customers achieve their own sustainability goals. In our communities, we remain focused on expanding access to STEM education and advancing global health equity.

In addition, our engaged colleagues and community action councils made a huge impact around the world through their volunteer activities throughout the year. As I reflect on 2025, I'm very proud of what our team accomplished and deeply grateful to our colleagues for their unwavering passion for our mission, which fuels our success. So let me now turn to guidance. Stephen will outline the assumptions that factor into the guidance for the upcoming year, so let me quickly cover the highlights.

In 2026, we will continue to actively manage the company, leveraging the PPI Business System to enable excellent operational performance and very strong earnings growth. We are also well positioned to continue our share gain momentum. We are initiating a 2026 revenue guidance range of $46.3 billion to $47.2 billion, which represents 4% to 6% reported revenue growth over 2025 and assumes 3% to 4% organic growth for the year. We are initiating our earnings guidance with an adjusted EPS range of $24.22 to $24.80 per share, which represents 6% to 8% growth in adjusted earnings per share. So to summarize our key takeaways, we delivered a strong 2025 capped off by an excellent fourth quarter.

We delivered another year of excellent operational performance and share gain, reflecting the active management of the company, the strength of our proven growth strategy and the power of our PPI Business System. We advanced our long-term competitive position throughout the year with high-impact innovation, strategic partnerships and disciplined capital deployment. And we entered 2026 with strong momentum. Our growth strategy is resonating with customers and positions us for a very bright future.

With that, I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Stephen Williamson. Stephen?

Stephen Williamson
Senior VP & CFO

Thanks, Marc, and good morning, everyone. As you saw in our press release, we had a great Q4 to cap off the year. Throughout the year, the team effectively navigated the external environment and remain focused on delivering for all of our stakeholders. I'll take you through an overview of our fourth quarter and full year results for the total company, then provide color on our 4 business segments, and I'll conclude by providing our 2026 guidance.

Before I get into the details of our financial performance, let me provide you with a high-level view of how the fourth quarter played out versus our expectations at the time of our last earnings call. In Q4, we delivered 3% organic growth and 8% growth in adjusted EPS. It was another quarter of excellent execution. These results are significantly ahead of the assumptions of the midpoint of our prior guidance on both the top and bottom line. Q4 revenue was approximately $250 million ahead, driven by 1% stronger organic revenue growth and a stronger-than-expected tailwind from FX. Adjusted EPS in Q4 was $0.14 ahead.

This was comprised of $0.25 from very strong operational performance, partially offset by $0.11 of higher FX headwind on the bottom line. The FX impact was driven by continued volatility in rates during the quarter due to trade tensions and represented an incremental 65 basis points of headwind to margins relative to our prior guidance. So as I said, a great Q4 with a strong beat to cap off the year. Let me now provide you with some additional details on our Q4 and full year 2025 performance. Starting with earnings per share. In the quarter, adjusted EPS grew by 8% to $6.57. For the full year, we delivered adjusted EPS of $22.87, up 5% compared to last year. GAAP EPS in the quarter was $5.21 and for the full year, it was $17.74.

On the top line, Q4 reported revenue grew 7% year-over-year. The components of our reported revenue change included 3% organic growth, a 2% contribution from acquisitions and a 2% tailwind from foreign exchange. For the full year 2025, reported revenue growth increased 4%. Organic growth was 2% and both acquisitions and FX were a 1% tailwind. Turning to our organic revenue performance by geography. In Q4, North America grew low single digits, Europe grew mid-single digits and Asia Pacific grew low single digits, with China declining low single digits.

For the full year, North America grew low single digits, Europe grew mid-single digits and Asia Pacific grew low single digits, with China declining mid-single digits. With respect to our operational performance, we delivered $2.88 billion of adjusted operating income in the quarter, an increase of 6% year-over-year, and adjusted operating margin was 23.6%, 30 basis points lower than Q4 last year, which includes over 100 basis points of headwind from tariffs and related FX. For the full year, we delivered $10.11 billion of adjusted operating income, a year-over-year increase of 4% versus 2024 and adjusted operating margin was 22.7%, 10 basis points higher than the prior year, which also includes a headwind from tariffs and related FX of over 100 basis points.

Throughout the year, our active management of the business and the power of our PPI Business System enabled us to effectively manage the unexpected macro headwinds and continue to grow our adjusted operating income and expand our margins. I'm proud of how the team stepped up this year to enable these results. Total company adjusted gross margin in the quarter was 41.8%. And for the full year, it was 41.7%. The drivers of gross margin are similar to those of adjusted operating margin. Moving on to the details of the P&L. Adjusted SG&A in the quarter was 15.3% of revenue, down 80 basis points. For the full year, it was 15.9% of revenue, down 40 basis points.

Total R&D expense was $357 million in Q4 and $1.4 billion for the full year, up 1% year-over-year, reflecting our ongoing investments in high-impact innovation. R&D as a percent of our manufacturing revenue for the year was 7%. Looking at our results below the line, our Q4 net interest expense was $107 million. Net interest expense for the full year was $426 million. The adjusted tax rate in Q4 was 10.5% and 10.4% for the full year. And average diluted shares were $377 million in Q4, $6 million lower year-over-year, driven by share repurchases net of option dilution. Turning to free cash flow and the balance sheet.

Full year cash flow from operations was $7.82 billion and free cash flow was $6.34 billion after investing $1.48 billion of net capital expenditures. Cash flow was slightly lower than we'd assumed in the prior guide, largely driven by temporary impacts in working capital and the timing of cash taxes. During 2025, we continue to successfully execute our capital deployment strategy, deploying approximately $16.5 billion in 2025. This includes $4 billion for the acquisitions of our filtration and separation business from Solventum and the sterile fill-finish site from Sanofi earlier in the year.

Then in Q4, we announced a definitive agreement to acquire Clario for approximately $9 billion in cash plus potential future performance-based payments. We expect to complete the transaction by the middle of 2026, at which point the business will become part of our Laboratory Products and Biopharma Services segment. In 2025, we also deployed $3.6 billion through the return of capital to shareholders, $3 billion of share buybacks and approximately $600 million of dividends. We ended the year with $10.1 billion in cash and short-term investments and $39.4 billion of total debt. Our leverage ratio at the end of the year was 3.5x gross debt to adjusted EBITDA and 2.6x on a net debt basis.

And concluding my comments on our total company performance, adjusted ROIC was 11.3%, reflecting the strong returns on investment that we're generating across the company. Now I'll provide some color on the performance of our 4 business segments. In Life Science Solutions, Q4 reported revenue in this segment increased 13% versus the prior year quarter and organic revenue growth was 4%. Growth in this segment was led by our bioproduction business, which had another quarter of excellent growth. For the full year, reported revenue increased 8% and organic revenue growth was 3%.

Q4 adjusted operating income for Life Science Solutions increased 10% and adjusted operating margin was 35.5%, down 110 basis points versus the prior year quarter. During Q4, we delivered very strong productivity and good volume leverage, which was more than offset by unfavorable mix, strategic investments and the expected impact from the acquisition of our filtration and separation business. For the full year, adjusted operating income increased 8% and adjusted operating margin was 36.3%, down 10 basis points versus 2024. In the Analytical Instruments segment for both Q4 and the full year, reported revenue increased 1% and organic revenue growth was flat.

Growth in the quarter was led by our chromatography and mass spectrometry business. In this segment, Q4 adjusted operating income decreased 12% and adjusted operating margin was 26.3%, down 420 basis points versus the year ago quarter. The majority of the year-over-year margin change was driven by the impact of tariffs and related FX. Outside of that impact, strong productivity was partially offset by strategic investments and unfavorable mix. For the full year, adjusted operating income decreased 11% and adjusted operating margin was 23%, 320 basis points lower than 2024. Turning to Specialty Diagnostics.

In Q4, reported revenue grew 5% year-over-year and organic revenue growth was 3%. In Q4, growth in this segment was led by our clinical diagnostics, transplant diagnostics and immunodiagnostics businesses. For the full year, reported revenue increased 4% and organic revenue growth was 2%. Q4 adjusted operating income for Specialty Diagnostics increased 19% and adjusted operating margin was 26.6%, 300 basis points higher than Q4 2024. During the quarter, we delivered good productivity and volume leverage and had favorable mix, which was partially offset by headwinds from foreign exchange.

For the full year, adjusted operating income was 8% higher than 2024 and adjusted operating margin was 26.9%, an increase of 120 basis points versus the prior year. And finally, in Laboratory Products and Biopharma Services segment, reported revenue increased 7% and organic revenue growth was 5% with broad-based strength across our research and safety market channel and our pharma services and clinical research businesses. For the full year, reported revenue grew 4% and organic revenue was 3% higher year-over-year.

Q4 adjusted operating income in the segment increased 12% and adjusted operating margin was 14.5%, 50 basis points higher than Q4 2024. In the quarter, we delivered very strong productivity and good volume leverage, which was partially offset by unfavorable mix, strategic investments and headwinds from foreign exchange. For the full year, adjusted operating income increased 8% and adjusted operating margin was 14%, 70 basis points higher than 2024. Turning now to guidance. As Marc outlined, we're initiating a 2026 revenue guidance range of $46.3 billion to $47.2 billion and an adjusted EPS guidance range of $24.22 to $24.80, representing 6% to 8% growth.

The guidance assumes 3% to 4% organic revenue growth, a $300 million revenue tailwind from foreign exchange and 50 basis points of adjusted operating margin expansion. All of this will enable a really strong 6% to 8% growth in adjusted EPS. This guidance is consistent with the financial framing for '26 and '27 that we shared with you back on our Q2 earnings call. It reflects a continued improvement in our organic growth in '26, coupled with very strong earnings growth. The strength of our guidance reflects our industry-leading position, our proven growth strategy and the power of our PPI Business System. Let me now provide some detailed context behind the guide.

The midpoint of our guidance assumes organic revenue growth of slightly above 3%. This is a step-up from 2025. We think it is appropriate to start at 3% at the beginning of the year. And as we execute through 2026, we can retire risk as we go and progress higher in the range. As is our normal practice, we've not included any future acquisitions or divestitures within our guidance. The guide, therefore, does not include the benefit of the pending acquisition of Clario. As a reminder, we expect this deal to close by the middle of 2026.

Should that be the case, we would expect $0.20 to $0.25 of incremental adjusted EPS for this year, reflecting the strongly accretive nature of the acquisition. That would represent roughly 1 additional point of adjusted EPS growth for 2026, taking the total company growth into the range of 7% to 9%. In terms of the macro environment, our guidance is based on the tariffs that are in place as of today. It doesn't contemplate any future changes in tariffs nor the potential impact on FX rates. Should additional tariffs be levied as we did last year, we will act with speed at scale to minimize them and provide our usual level of transparency as to their impact.

The guidance includes $600 million of inorganic revenue from the acquisitions closed in 2025. In that inorganic period, these acquisitions are expected to contribute $60 million of adjusted operating income, the math of which adds a 20 basis point headwind to adjusted operating margins in 2026. After factoring in the financing costs, they represented $0.07 of adjusted EPS dilution for 2026. These acquisitions are progressing well versus our deal model expectations. We're in the integration and investment phase in 2026, which is setting us up to deliver strong accretion and very attractive returns going forward. To help you with your modeling, here are a few additional assumptions behind the guide. We expect approximately $500 million of net interest expense in 2026.

We assume that the adjusted income tax rate will be 11.5% in 2026, largely driven by the increased earnings. We're expecting between $1.8 billion and $2 billion of net capital expenditures in 2026. The increase over '25 is driven by our investments in U.S. manufacturing. In terms of free cash flow, we're expecting that to be in the range of $6.8 billion to $7.3 billion for the year. In terms of capital deployment, we're assuming $3 billion of share buybacks, which were already completed in January. We estimate the full year average diluted share count will be between 370 million and 375 million shares. We're assuming we'll return approximately $700 million of capital to shareholders this year through dividends.

And finally, I want to touch on phasing for Q1. Embedded in the guidance is the assumption that Q1 organic revenue growth will be a couple of points lower than the full year '26. This is largely driven by selling days and the expected phasing of our revenue in our Pharma Services business over the course of 2026. And we're expecting low single-digit adjusted EPS growth in Q1. So in conclusion, Q4 capped off a very successful 2025. The team is focused on continuing to maximize share gain, delivering very strong earnings growth and generating great returns from our capital deployment, all to enable an excellent 2026 and advance our strategy for an even brighter future.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Marc.

Marc Casper
Chairman, President & CEO

Thanks, Stephen. So before we turn to Q&A, I just want to say a few words. As you know, Stephen will retire at the end of March. Let me start with thank you to Stephen for all of your contributions to the success of Thermo Fisher and the deep friendship we have developed over the past 25 years. And let me say a heartfelt congratulations on a spectacular career at Thermo Fisher, including being our CFO for the past 10 years. You have played such an active leadership role in our growth and success, and we're all very grateful.

What is both so cool and so important is your consistent passion for developing people and also in building a world-class finance function. I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to work with Jim Meyer, who will be taking the reins as CFO in March, having spent 17 years at the company. Stephen, on behalf of all of your colleagues and stakeholders of Thermo Fisher, thank you and congratulations. We wish you a wonderful retirement. And Jim, congratulations on your promotion.

Stephen Williamson
Senior VP & CFO

Thanks, Marc, for those incredibly kind words. It's been an honor to be part of this amazing company. I'm really excited about my next chapter, and I'm also excited about the continued success of Thermo Fisher with Jim as the CFO. Let me turn it back to Raf to start the Q&A.

Rafael Tejada
Vice President of Investor Relations

Operator, we're ready for the Q&A portion of the call.

