Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (TSM) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 15, 2026 1:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Jeff Su - Director of Investor Relations
Jen-Chau Huang - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
C.C. Wei - Chairman & CEO

Conference Call Participants

Gokul Hariharan - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Chia Yi Chen - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Charlie Chan - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Yu Jang Lai - Macquarie Research
Brett Simpson - Arete Research Services LLP
Sunny Lin - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Zheng Lu - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Jeff Su
Director of Investor Relations

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to TSMC's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference and Conference Call. My name is Jeff Su, TSMC's Director of Investor Relations and your host for today.

Today's event is being webcast live through TSMC's website at www.tsmc.com, where you can also download the earnings release materials. If you are joining us through the conference call, your dial-in lines are in listen-only mode.

The format for today's event will be as follows: First, TSMC's Senior Vice President and CFO, Mr. Wendell Huang, will summarize our operations in the fourth quarter 2025, followed by our guidance for the first quarter 2026. Afterwards, Mr. Huang and TSMC's Chairman and CEO, Dr. C.C. Wei, will jointly provide the company's key messages. Then we will open both the floor and the line for the question-and-answer session.

As usual, I would like to remind everybody that today's discussions may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the safe harbor notice that appears in our press release.

And now I would like to turn the microphone over to TSMC's CFO, Mr. Wendell Huang, for the summary of operations and the current quarter guidance.

Jen-Chau Huang
Senior VP of Finance & CFO

Thank you, Jeff. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. My presentation will start with financial highlights for the fourth quarter of 2025 and a recap of full year 2025. After that, I will provide the guidance for the first quarter of 2026. Fourth quarter revenue increased 5.7% sequentially in NT, supported by strong demand for our leading-edge process technologies. In U.S. dollar terms, revenue increased 1.9% sequentially to TWD 33.7 billion, slightly ahead of our fourth quarter guidance.

Gross margin increased by 2.8 percentage points sequentially to 62.3%, primarily due to cost improvement efforts, favorable foreign exchange rate and high capacity utilization rate. The operating expenses accounted for 8.4% of net revenue compared to 8.9% in the third quarter of '25 due to operating leverage. Thus, operating margin increased sequentially by 3.4 percentage points to 54%. Overall, our fourth quarter EPS was TWD 19.5 and ROE was 38.8%.

Now let's move on to revenue by technology. 3-nanometer process technology contributed of 28% of wafer revenue in the fourth quarter, while 5-nanometer and 7-nanometer accounted for 35% and 14%, respectively.

Advanced technologies, defined as 7-nanometer and below, accounted for 77% of wafer revenue. On a full year basis, 3-nanometer revenue contribution came in at 24% of 2025 wafer revenue, 5-nanometer, 36% and 7-nanometer, 14%.

Advanced technologies accounted for 74% of total wafer revenue, up from 69% in 2024. Moving on to revenue contribution by platform. HPC increased 4% quarter-over-quarter to account for 55% of our fourth quarter revenue. Smartphone increased 11% to account for 32%. IoT increased 3% to account for 5%. Automotive decreased 1% to account for 5%, while DCE decreased 22% to account for 1%.

On a full year basis, HPC increased 48% year-over-year. Smartphone, IoT and automotive increased by 11%, 15% and 34%, respectively, in 2025, while DCE remains flat. Overall, HPC accounted for 58% of our 2025 revenue. Smartphone accounted for 29%. IoT accounted for 5%, automotive accounted for 5% and DCE accounted for 1%.

Moving on to the balance sheet. We ended the fourth quarter with cash and marketable securities of TWD 3.1 trillion or USD 98 billion. On the liability side, current liabilities increased by TWD 182 billion quarter-over-quarter, mainly due to the increase of TWD 95 billion in accrued liabilities and others and the increase of TWD 61 billion from the reclassification of bonds payable to current portion.

In terms of financial ratios, accounts receivable days increased by 1 day to 26 days. Inventory days remained steady at 74 days. Regarding cash flow and CapEx, during the fourth quarter, we generated about TWD 726 billion in cash from operations, spent TWD 357 billion in CapEx and distributed TWD 130 billion for first quarter '25 cash dividend.

Overall, our cash balance increased TWD 297 billion to TWD 2.8 trillion at the end of the quarter. In U.S. dollar terms, our fourth quarter capital expenditures totaled TWD 11.5 billion.

Now let's look at the recap of our performance in 2025. Thanks to the strong demand for our leading-edge process technologies, we continue to outperform the foundry industry in 2025. Our revenue increased 35.9% in U.S. dollar terms to TWD 122 billion or increased 31.6% in NT dollar terms to TWD 3.8 trillion. Gross margin increased 3.8 percentage points to 59.9%, mainly reflecting a higher capacity utilization rate and cost improvement efforts, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange rate and margin dilution from our overseas fabs. With operating leverage, our operating margin increased 5.1 percentage points to 50.8%. Overall, full year EPS increased 46.4% to TWD 66.25 and ROE increased 5.1 percentage points to 35.4%.

In 2025, we generated TWD 2.3 trillion in operating cash flow, spent TWD 1.3 trillion or USD 40.9 billion on capital expenditures. As a result, free cash flow amounted to TWD 1 trillion, up 15.2% from 2024. Meanwhile, we paid TWD 467 billion in cash dividends in 2025, up 28.6% year-over-year as we continue to increase our cash dividend per share.

TSMC shareholders received a total of TWD 18 cash dividend per share in 2025, up from TWD 14 in 2024, and they will receive at least TWD 23 per share in 2026. I have finished my financial summary.

Now let's turn to our current quarter guidance. We expect our business to be supported by continued strong demand for our leading-edge process technologies. Based on the current business outlook, we expect our first quarter revenue to be between USD 34.6 billion and USD 35.8 billion, which represents a 4% sequential increase or a 38% year-over-year increase at the midpoint.

Based on the exchange rate assumption of USD 1 to TWD 31.6, gross margin is expected to be between 63% and 65%, operating margin between 54% and 56%. Lastly, our effective tax rate was 16% in 2025. For 2026, we expect our effective tax rate to be between 17% and 18%. This concludes my financial presentation.

Now let me turn to our key messages. I will start by talking about our fourth quarter '25 and first quarter '26 profitability. Compared to third quarter, our fourth quarter gross margin increased by 280 basis points sequentially to 62.3%, primarily due to cost improvement efforts, a more favorable foreign exchange rate and a higher overall capacity utilization rate.

Compared to our fourth quarter guidance, our actual gross margin exceeded the high end of the range provided 3 months ago by 130 basis points, mainly as we delivered better-than-expected cost improvement efforts.

In addition, the actual fourth quarter exchange rate was USD 1 to TWD 31.01 as compared to our guidance of USD 1 to TWD 30.6. We have just guided our first quarter gross margin to increase by 170 basis points to 64% at the midpoint, primarily driven by continued cost improvement efforts, including productivity gains and a higher overall capacity utilization rate, partially offset by continued dilution from our overseas fab.

Looking at full year 2026, given the 6 factors, there are a few puts and takes I would like to share. On the one hand, we expect our overall utilization rate to moderately increase in 2026. N3 gross margin is expected to cross over to the corporate average sometime in 2026, and we continue to work hard to earn our value. In addition, we are leveraging our manufacturing excellence to drive greater productivity in our fabs to generate more wafer output.

We are also increasing a cross-node capacity optimization, which includes flexible capacity support among N7, N5 and N3 nodes to support our profitability. On the other hand, as the scale of our overseas expansion grows, we continue to forecast the gross margin dilution from the ramp-up of overseas fabs in the next several years to be between 2% to 3% in the early stages and widen to 3% to 4% in the latter stages.

Furthermore, the initial ramp-up of our 2-nanometer technology will start to dilute our gross margin in the second half of the year, and we expect between 2 to 3 percentage -- percent dilution for the full year of 2026. Finally, we have no control over the foreign exchange rate, but that may be another factor in 2026.

Next, let me talk about our 2026 capital budget and depreciation. At TSMC, a higher level of capital expenditures is always correlated to the high-growth opportunities in the following years. With our strong technology leadership and differentiation, we are well positioned to capture the multiyear structural demand from the industry megatrends of 5G, AI and HPC.

In 2025, we spent USD 40.9 billion as compared to USD 29.8 billion in 2024 as we began to raise our level of capital spending in anticipation of the growth that will follow in the future years. In 2026, we expect our capital budget to be between USD 52 billion and USD 56 billion as we continue to invest to support our customers' growth. About 70% to 80% of the 2026 capital budget will be allocated to advanced process technologies.

About 10% will be spent for specialty technologies and about 10% to 20% will be spent for advanced packaging, testing, mask making and others. Our depreciation expense is expected to increase by high teens percentage year-over-year in 2026, mainly as we ramp our 2-nanometer technologies.

Even as we invest in the future growth with this level of CapEx spending in 2026, we remain committed to delivering profitable growth to our shareholders.

Finally, let me talk about TSMC's long-term profitability outlook. As a foundry, our biggest responsibility is to support our customers' growth, and we always view them as partners. Having said that, we are in a very capital-intensive business. In the last 5 years alone, our CapEx totaled USD 167 billion. Our R&D investments totaled USD 30 billion. Therefore, it is important for TSMC to earn a sustainable and healthy return as we continue to invest in leading -edge specialty and advanced packaging technologies to support our customers' growth. Today, we face increasing manufacturing cost challenges due to the rising cost of leading nodes.

For example, the cost of tools are becoming more expensive and process complexity is increasing. As a result, the CapEx dollar required to build 1,000 wafer per month capacity of N2 is substantially higher than 1,000 wafer per month capacity for N3. The CapEx per k cost for A14 will be even higher.

We also faced additional cost challenges from expansion of our global manufacturing footprint, new investments in specialty technologies and inflationary costs. These all lead to a higher level of CapEx spending. As a result, in the last 3 years, our CapEx dollars amount totaled USD 101 billion, but is expected to be significantly higher in the next 3 years. Having said that, we continue to work closely with our customers to plan our capacity while sticking to our disciplines to ensure a healthy overall capacity utilization rate through the cycle.

Our pricing will remain strategic, not opportunistic to earn our value. We will work diligently with our suppliers to drive greater cost improvements. We will also leverage our manufacturing excellence to generate more wafer output and drive greater a cross node capacity optimization in our fab operations to support our profitability. By taking such actions, we believe a long-term gross margins of 56% and higher through the cycle is achievable, and we can earn an ROE of high 20s percent through the cycle.

By earning a sustainable and healthy return, even as we shoulder a greater burden of CapEx investment for our customers, we can continue to invest in technology and capacity to support their growth while delivering long-term profitable growth to our shareholders. We also remain committed to a sustainable and steadily increasing cash dividends per share on both an annual and quarterly basis.

Now let me turn the microphone over to C.C.

C.C. Wei
Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Wendell. Good afternoon, everybody. First, let me start with our 2026 outlook. In 2025, we observed robust AI-related demand throughout the whole year, while non-AI end market segment bottomed out and saw a mild recovery. Concluding 2025, the Foundry 2.0 industry, which we define as all logic wafer manufacturing, packaging, testing, mask making and others increased 16% year-over-year.

Supported by our strong technology differentiation and broad customer base, TSMC's revenue increased 35.9% year-over-year in U.S. dollar terms, outperforming the Foundry 2.0 industry growth. Entering 2026, we understand there are uncertainties and risk from the potential impact of tariff policies and rising component prices, especially in consumer-related and price-sensitive end market segment.

As such, we will be prudent in our business planning while focusing on the fundamentals of our business to further strengthen our competition position. We forecast the Foundry 2.0 industry to grow 14% year-over-year in 2026, supported by robust AI-related demand. Underpinned by strong demand for our leading-edge specialty and advanced packaging technologies, we are confident we can continue to outperform the industry growth.

We expect 2026 to be another strong growth year for TSMC and forecast our full year revenue to increase by close to 30% in U.S. dollar terms. Next, let me talk about the AI demand and TSMC's long-term growth outlook. Recent development in the AI market continue to be very positive. Revenue from AI accelerator accounted for high teens percent of our total revenue in 2025.

Looking ahead, we observe increasing AI model adoption across consumer, enterprise and sovereign AI segment. This is driving need for more and more computation, which supports the robust demand for leading-edge silicon. Our customers continue to provide us with a positive outlook.

In addition, our customers' customers who are mainly the cloud service providers are also providing strong signals and reaching out directly to request the capacity to support their business. Thus, our conviction in the multiyear AI megatrend remains strong, and we believe the demand for semiconductor will continue to be very fundamental. As a foundry, our first responsibility is to fully support our customers with the most advanced technology and necessary capacity to unleash their innovations. To address the structural increase in the long-term market demand profile, TSMC works closely with our customer and our customers' customer to plan our capacity.

This process is continuous and ongoing. In addition as process technology complexity increases, the engagement lead time with customers is now at least 2 to 3 years in advance. Internally, as we have said before, TSMC employs a disciplined capacity planning system to assess the market demand from both top-down and bottom-up approaches.

We focus on the overall addressable megatrend to determine the appropriate capacity to build. Based on our assessment, we are preparing to increase our capacity and stepping out our CapEx investment to support our customers' future growth.

We are also putting forward the existing fab schedule to the extent possible, both in Taiwan and in Arizona. We will also leverage our manufacturing excellence to drive greater productivity in our fabs to generate more output, convert N5 capacity to support N3 wherever necessary and focus on capacity optimization across node to maximize the support to our customers.

Based on our planning framework, we raised our forecast for the revenue growth from AI accelerator to approach a mid- to high 50s percent CAGR for the 5 years period from 2024 to 2029. Underpinned by our technology differentiation and broad customer base, we now expect our overall long-term revenue growth to approach 25% CAGR in U.S. dollar terms for the 5-years period starting from 2024.

While we expect AI accelerators to be the largest contributor in terms of our incremental revenue growth, our overall revenue growth will be fueled by all 4 of our growth platform, which are smartphone, HPC, IoT and automotive in the next several years. As the world's most reliable and effective capacity provider, we will continue to work closely with our customers to invest in leading-edge specialty and advanced packaging technologies to support their growth. We will also remain disciplined in our capacity planning approach to ensure we deliver profitable growth for our shareholders.

Now let me talk about TSMC's global manufacturing footprint update. All our overseas decisions are based on our customers' need as they value some geographic flexibility and a necessary level of government support. This is also to maximize the value for our shareholders. With a strong collaboration and support from our leading U.S. customers and the U.S. federal, state and city government, we are speeding up our capacity expansion in Arizona and executing well to our plan. Our first fab has already successfully entered high-volume production in 4Q '24.

Construction of our second fab is already complete and tool moving and installation is planned in 2026. Due to the strong demand from our customers, we are also putting forward the production schedule and now expect to enter high-volume manufacturing in the second half of 2027.

Construction of our third fab has already started, and we are in the process of applying for permits to begin the construction of our fourth fab and first advanced packaging fab. Furthermore, we have just completed the purchase of a second large piece of land nearby to support our current expansion plan and provide more flexibility in response to the very strong multiyear AI-related demand.

Our plan will enable TSMC to scale up an independent giga-fab cluster in Arizona to support the need of our leading-edge customers in smartphone, AI and HPC applications. Next, in Japan, thanks to the strong support from the Japan Central prefecture and the local government, our first specialty fab in Kumamoto has already started volume production in late 2024 with very good yield.

The construction of our second fab has started and the technologies and ramp schedule will be based on our customers' need and market conditions. In Europe, we have received strong commitment from the European Commission and the German federal state and city government, construction of our specialty fab in Dresden, Germany is progressing in our plan.

The ramp schedule will be based on our customers' need and market conditions. In Taiwan, with support from Taiwan government, we are preparing multiple ways of 2-nanometers fabs in both Hsinchu and Kaohsiung Science Park. We will continue to invest in leading edge and advanced packaging facilities in Taiwan over the next few years.

By expanding our global footprint while continually invested in Taiwan, TSMC can continue to be better to be the trusted technology and capacity provider of the global logic industry for years to come.

Last, let me talk about N2 and A16 status. Our 2-nanometer and A16 technologies lead the industry in addressing the insatiable demand for energy-efficient computing and almost all the innovators are working with TSMC. N2 successfully entered high-volume manufacturing in 4Q 2025, at both our Hsinchu and Kaohsiung site with good yield.

We are seeing strong demand from smartphone and HPC AI applications and expect a fast ramp in 2026. With our strategy of continuous enhancement, we also introduced a N2P as an extension of N2 family. N2P features further performance and power benefits on top of N2 and volume production is scheduled for the second half of this year.

We also introduced A16 featuring our best-in-class superpower rail or SPR. A16 is best suitable for specific HPC products with complex signal route and dense power delivery network. Volume production is on track for the second half 2026. We believe N2, N2P, A16 and its derivatives will propel our N2 family to be another large and long-lasting node for TSMC, while further extending our technology leadership position well into the future.

This concludes our key message, and thank you for your attention.

Jeff Su
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Wendell. Thank you, C.C. This does conclude our prepared statements.

