Textron Inc. (TXT) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Scott Hegstrom - Vice President of Investor Relations & Treasurer
Scott Donnelly - Executive Chairman
Lisa Atherton - CEO, President & Director
David Rosenberg - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Peter Arment - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Kristine Liwag - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Myles Walton - Wolfe Research, LLC
Robert Stallard - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
Seth Seifman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Noah Poponak - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
John Godyn - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Gavin Parsons - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Ronald Epstein - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Textron Fourth Quarter 2025 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to Scott Hegstrom, Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer. You may begin.

Scott Hegstrom
Vice President of Investor Relations & Treasurer

Thanks, Rob, and good morning, everyone. Before we begin, I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors, which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release. On the call today, we have Scott Donnelly, our Executive Chairman; Lisa Atherton, our Chief Executive Officer; and David Rosenberg, our Chief Financial Officer. Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Scott.

Scott Donnelly
Executive Chairman

Thanks, Scott, and good morning, everyone. Textron closed out the year with another solid quarter, driven by significant revenue growth of 16% and segment profit growth of 34%, resulting in an adjusted EPS of $1.73. For the full year, Textron finished the year with revenue growth of 8% and segment profit growth of 14%, resulting in adjusted EPS of $6.10.

Looking at the segments, Aviation had a strong year with revenue up 36% for the fourth quarter and 13% for the full year, reflecting higher aircraft deliveries and increased aftermarket volume as we recovered from the strike in late 2024. In the quarter, we continued to see solid order flow and customer demand across our portfolio, ending the year with $7.7 billion of backlog. In 2025, we delivered 171 jets, up from 151 last year and 146 commercial turboprops, up from 127 in 2024.

Also in the quarter, we continue to upgrade the product portfolio with the Citation Ascend CJ3 Gen2 and the M2 Gen2 with autothrottles, all receiving FAA certification and beginning deliveries. During 2025, strong aircraft utilization within the Textron Aviation product portfolio resulted in 6% growth in aftermarket revenues. Bell also had a very strong year with revenue up 11% for the fourth quarter and 20% for the full year. With the acceleration of the MV-75 program, 2025 marks Bell's second consecutive year of 20% growth in military revenue.

We've talked a lot about accelerating the MV-75 program in 2025. To provide some examples of our progress on this, we've completed over 90% of the engineering drawings, put nearly 2,000 Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers on contract, issuing 45,000 purchase orders, opened new manufacturing capacity in Wichita for the fuselage and Fort Worth for the Advanced Manufacturing Center, the Drive Systems Test Lab and the Weapon Systems Integration Lab. And we've begun manufacturing components for the first 6 aircraft. So the acceleration is not just design work, it's establishing real production capacity as we pull forward production by a couple of years.

Earlier this month, we hosted the Secretary of the Army and representatives from the MV-75 program office at our Wichita Assembly Center, where we are building the fuselage of the aircraft. During this visit, we were able to demonstrate our production capabilities and progress on the first 6 aircraft that are currently in work. Across Bell's other sites, we're seeing the results of our prior investments in manufacturing process development, which led to efficient manufacturing of major parts like our wing skins and spars. On the commercial side, Bell continued to see strong order activity in 2025. For the year, Bell delivered 169 commercial helicopters compared to 172 in 2024.

Moving to Systems. The team also delivered revenue growth for both the quarter and the full year with revenue up 4% in the quarter and slightly up for the full year. The team generated this revenue growth, while facing headwinds that it had to overcome, including the challenging comparables resulting from the wind down of the Shadow program. The Ship-to-Shore Connector program has proven to be a real strength for the segment. We are now about 15 units into a 73-unit program of record. The program has scaled up and is now running efficiently and has received over $450 million of awards this year.

During the quarter, Systems received an IDIQ Contract valued up to $200 million for its ATAC business to provide airborne standoff jamming services to the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps. This program will support Navy fleet customers with a wide variety of airborne threat simulation capabilities to train, test and evaluate shipboard and aircraft weapon systems. At Industrial, the segment ended the year with a positive organic growth of about 1% in the fourth quarter after streamlining the portfolio with the divestiture of the Powersports business.

In summary, 2025 was a strong year for Textron. We continue to execute on our growth strategy of ongoing investments in new products and programs to drive organic growth and margin expansion. As we wrap up 2025, this will be my last earnings call. I want to express my thanks for all your support over the years. I feel very good about where the business stands, the team that we have in place and the leadership that Lisa brings to the table.

With that, I'll hand off to her to talk about the business more broadly and our plans for 2026.

Lisa Atherton
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Scott. And I want to extend my sincere gratitude for your exceptional leadership and your commitment to Textron over the years. And on behalf of the entire team, thank you for your many contributions and the lasting legacy that you leave, and we wish you all the very best.

For those of you that may not know me, I graduated from the United States Air Force Academy. I was a contract officer and then a civilian contractor at the Directorate of Requirements at Air Combat Command. I left ACC in 2007 and joined Textron, holding various leadership positions within Textron Systems and Bell. I was fortunate enough to spend several years leading Systems before my last position as CEO of Bell. In these roles, I led numerous development and program activities, including the Future Long Range Assault Aircraft, now the MV-75 program.

When we look across Textron, I am very excited for the opportunities that lie ahead. Textron Aviation, our largest segment, is a clear leader in general aviation with its Cessna and Beechcraft brands. It has a great product lineup, an unmatched installed base, driving a powerful aftermarket business and a world-class customer. 2025 was a very strong year for Aviation, and the business is well positioned for the future. In addition to our successful certification efforts, we continue to progress on the Beechcraft Denali Development program. The Denali finished the year having logged over 3,200 hours of flight testing.

On the defense side, Textron Aviation entered a contract to deliver the first 2 Beechcraft T-6 to Japan's Air Self-Defense Force with additional contracts anticipated. Deliveries of the 2 aircraft are scheduled for 2029. From a market perspective, the general aviation industry is very healthy. The business has nearly $8 billion backlog, and we continue to experience strong order flow. As a result of the team's continued product innovation and operational execution, we remain at the forefront of the industry.

Turning to Bell. The MV-75 program continues to be a great success story. What began as internal research and development and turned into the V-280 on the Joint Multi-Role Technology Demonstrator program is now a core component of the Army's transformation initiative. Over the last year, we have worked closely with the Army as they accelerate the program. Bell is now poised to begin testing on the first unit later this year, deliver EMD articles throughout 2027 and then transition into LRIP deliveries in 2028.

Our military opportunities are not limited to just the MV-75 program. Earlier this month, Bell was notified of its selection to proceed to the next phase of the Flight School Next Competition. This would be a new program to train Army aviators at Fort Rucker. This opportunity leverages our 505 helicopter and our expertise in flight training, where Bell currently trains nearly 2,000 pilots per year at the Bell Training Academy. Because of our long-term investment strategy, our defense and commercial product mix and our agility in adapting to and embracing acceleration with a wartime footing mentality, we think Textron is demonstrating the characteristics valued by the Department of War in support of the arsenal of freedom.

As I mentioned, I previously ran Textron Systems as well and believe that this business has long been one of the cool kids in the defense industry. We developed and have been flying unmanned systems for over 25 years with more than 2 million flight hours on our platforms. We developed our first unmanned surface vehicle in 2007. We have manufactured and fielded high-temperature materials that operate in hypersonic environments dating back to the 1960s. We are currently on Mars as part of the Perseverance Rover. Our technology is being utilized on the heat shield for Orion as it prepares to travel to the moon, and we are developing the reentry vehicle system for Sentinel as well as working on various other hypersonic applications.

We are also ramping our land offerings in support of the Ukraine with our MSFV platform, which is part of the COMMANDO family and continuing development on major opportunities like the Armed Reconnaissance Vehicle and the XM30. We also have proven commercial business models that have demonstrated across multiple platforms, including Aerosonde and ATAC, which are directly applicable to opportunities like Flight School Next. Thanks to our leading edge capabilities and recent program wins, Textron Systems is well positioned to drive future growth.

Moving to Industrial. The teams at Kautex and TFV have done a good job executing and dealing with challenging end markets. At Kautex, the hybrid volumes continue to grow and due to our investments in the Pentatonic offerings, we are gaining more exposure to pure electric vehicles. In fact, the Pentatonic offerings present the opportunity for both fuel tank and battery enclosure revenue on hybrid platforms. At TFV, the team continues to introduce new products and work to address the cost structure. For example, TFV rolled out the Cushman Hauler XL with larger hauling capacity. And at E-Z-GO, our PACE technology is expanding beyond golf into new markets.

Before I move to the outlook for 2026, I want to highlight that our $14.8 billion of revenue in 2025 is the highest we have ever had as a company. In 2026, we're projecting revenues of about $15.5 billion, up about 4.5% from 2025 for Textron's 2026 fiscal year. We are projecting adjusted EPS in the range of $6.40 to $6.60. Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions is expected to be in the range of $700 million to $800 million. This cash flow outlook reflects approximately $350 million of higher CapEx and long-lead material to support LRIP on the MV-75 program.

With that, I'll turn the call over to David to walk you through a recap of 2025 financials and the 2026 outlook.

David Rosenberg
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Lisa, and good morning, everyone. First, Scott, I would like to echo Lisa's comments and extend my gratitude to you as well. It has been a pleasure working with you over the years.

Turning to Slide 5 of the earnings presentation. Revenues in the quarter were $4.2 billion, up 16% or $562 million from last year's fourth quarter. Segment profit in the quarter was $380 million, up 34% or $97 million from the fourth quarter of 2024. During this year's fourth quarter, adjusted income from continuing operations was $1.73 per share compared to $1.34 per share in last year's fourth quarter. Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions totaled $510 million in the quarter, up $204 million from last year's fourth quarter.

For the full year, revenues were $14.8 billion, up 8% or $1.1 billion from last year. In 2025, segment profit was $1.4 billion, up 14% or $163 million from 2024. Adjusted income from continuing operations was $6.10 per share as compared to $5.48 per share in 2024. Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $969 million, up $277 million from 2024.

Now on Slide 6, let's review how each of the segments contributed, starting with Textron Aviation. Revenues at Textron Aviation of $1.7 billion were up $467 million or 36% from the fourth quarter of 2024, reflecting higher aircraft revenues of $400 million and higher aftermarket parts and service revenues of $67 million. The increase in aircraft revenues was primarily due to higher volume and mix, largely reflecting higher Citation jet and commercial turboprop volume as we recovered from the strike in 2024.

Segment profit was $208 million in the fourth quarter, up $108 million compared with the fourth quarter of 2024, largely due to higher volume and mix. On a full year basis, Textron Aviation generated revenue of $6 billion, up 13% over the prior year and $694 million of segment profit, up 23% from 2024. Backlog in the segment ended the year at $7.7 billion. Revenues at Bell of $1.3 billion were up $128 million or 11% from the fourth quarter of 2024. The revenue increase in the quarter was driven by higher military revenues of $139 million, primarily due to higher volume on the U.S. Army's MV-75 program, partially offset by lower commercial revenues of $11 million, reflecting the mix of aircraft sold in the period, offset in part by higher pricing.

Segment profit of $101 million was down $9 million from a year ago. On a full year basis, Bell generated revenues of $4.3 billion, up 20% over the prior year and $363 million of segment profit, down $7 million from 2024. Backlog in the segment ended the year at $7.8 billion, an increase of over $300 million from the prior year, reflecting growth in both military and commercial businesses. At Textron Systems, revenues of $323 million were up $12 million or 4% from last year's fourth quarter, primarily due to higher volume. Segment profit of $43 million was up $1 million from last year's fourth quarter.

On a full year basis, Systems generated revenue of $1.2 billion, up slightly over the prior year and $175 million of segment profit, up 14% from 2024. Backlog in the segment ended the year at $3.3 billion, an increase of over $700 million from the prior year related to awards across multiple domains, including ATAC, Marine Systems and Land Systems. Industrial revenues were $821 million, down $48 million from last year's fourth quarter. Textron Specialized Vehicles revenues decreased $69 million, largely reflecting a $72 million impact from the divestiture of the Powersports business.

Kautex revenues increased $21 million or 5%, largely due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. On an organic basis, Industrial revenues were up slightly from last year's fourth quarter. Segment profit of $30 million was down $18 million from the fourth quarter of 2024, largely due to higher selling and administrative costs and lower volume and mix. On a full year basis, Industrial generated revenue of $3.2 billion, down 9% from the prior year or down 4% organically and $145 million of segment profit, down $6 million from 2024.

Textron eAviation segment revenues were $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2025 as compared to $11 million in last year's fourth quarter, and segment loss was $15 million as compared to segment loss of $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2024. On a full year basis, eAviation generated revenue of $27 million and a segment loss of $63 million.

Finance segment revenues were $18 million and profit was $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2025 as compared to segment revenues of $11 million and profit of $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2024. The increase in revenues and segment profit included a $5 million gain on the disposition of non-captive assets in the fourth quarter of 2025. On a full year basis, the Finance segment generated revenue of $75 million and segment profit of $49 million.

Moving below segment profit, Corporate expenses were $44 million. Net interest expense for the manufacturing group was $31 million. LIFO inventory provision was $84 million and intangible asset amortization was $8 million, and the non-service component of pension and postretirement income were $66 million. During the quarter, we repurchased approximately 2.3 million shares, returning $187 million in cash to shareholders. For the full year, we repurchased approximately 10.7 million shares, returning $822 million to shareholders.

Turning now to our 2026 outlook on Slide 19. We're expecting adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $6.40 to $6.60. We are also expecting manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions to be about $700 million to $800 million. As Lisa mentioned in her remarks, this cash flow outlook reflects investing approximately $350 million of higher CapEx and long-lead materials to support LRIP on the MV-75 program. Before we move to the segment outlook, as you may recall, Textron is eliminating Textron eAviation as a separate reporting segment, realigning the eAviation business activities across Textron Aviation, Textron Systems and Corporate to leverage our existing sales, business development and engineering capabilities.

Our segment level guidance for 2026 reflects this new operating structure. In the earnings presentation that is posted on our website, we have recast 2025, so you can see 2025 actuals and 2026 guidance on a comparable basis.

Moving to segment outlook on Slide 20, and beginning with Textron Aviation, we're expecting revenues of about $6.5 billion, reflecting growth of approximately 9% over 2025. Segment margin is expected to be in the range of approximately 11% to 12%. The margin range compares to Textron Aviation's 2025 recasted margin of 11.1%.

Looking to Bell, we expect revenues of about $4.4 billion, reflecting low single-digit growth over 2025. We're forecasting a margin in the range of about 8% to 9%. As the MV-75 program continues to accelerate, we expect that we will be awarded the long lead, low-rate initial production or LRIP phase of the contract in late 2026 or early 2027. Upon award of the LRIP option, which is largely fixed price, we expect to record an unfavorable cumulative catch-up program adjustment, reflecting higher costs than originally anticipated when the program was bid in 2021, in the range of $60 million to $110 million.

The overall MV-75 program will continue to generate a positive margin after the adjustment. In light of the uncertainty of the timing of the award, this has not been reflected in our guidance for the year. At Systems, we're estimating revenues of $1.35 billion, reflecting growth of approximately 7% over 2025. Segment margin is expected to be in a range of approximately 12% to 13%. At Industrial, we're expecting segment revenues of about $3.2 billion. This reflects low single-digit growth when adjusting for the Powersports divestiture in 2025. Segment margin is expected to be in the range of about 4.5% to 5.5%. At Finance, we are forecasting segment profit of about $20 million.

Looking at Slide 21, we're projecting about $180 million of corporate expenses. We're also projecting about $140 million of net interest expense for the manufacturing group, $200 million of LIFO inventory provision, $30 million of intangible asset amortization and $280 million of nonservice pension income. We expect a full year adjusted effective tax rate of approximately 20.5%.

Turning to Slide 22. R&D is expected to be about $480 million, down from $521 million last year. As I mentioned, we are estimating higher CapEx on the MV-75 program, resulting in our 2026 CapEx to be about $650 million, up $383 million in 2025. Our outlook assumes an average share count of about 175 million shares. So for 2026 company-wide, we expect to see revenue of approximately $15.5 billion and segment profit of approximately $1.5 billion. All of this rolls up to an adjusted EPS forecast in the range of $6.40 to $6.60.

That concludes our prepared remarks. So operator, we can open the line for questions.

