United Airlines Holdings, Inc. (UAL) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 21, 2026 10:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Kristina Munoz - Managing Director of Investor Relations
Scott Kirby - CEO & Director
Brett Hart - President
Toby Enqvist - Executive VP & COO
Andrew Nocella - Executive VP & Chief Commercial Officer
Michael Leskinen - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Conor Cunningham - Melius Research LLC
David Vernon - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Catherine O'Brien - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Ravi Shanker - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jamie Baker - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Thomas Fitzgerald - TD Cowen, Research Division
Brandon Oglenski - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Michael Linenberg - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
John Godyn - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Scott Group - Wolfe Research, LLC
Christian Wetherbee - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Atul Maheswari - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Leslie Josephs
John Pletz

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to United Airlines Holdings Earnings Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025. My name is Colby, and I'll be your conference facilitator today. Following the initial remarks from management, we will open the lines for questions. [Operator Instructions]

This call is being recorded and is copyrighted. Please note that no portion of the call may be recorded, transcribed or rebroadcast without the company's permission. Your participation implies your consent to our recording of this call. If you do not agree with these terms, simply drop off the line.

I will now turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Kristina Edwards, Managing Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Kristina Munoz
Managing Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Colby. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to United's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Yesterday, we issued our earnings release which is available on our website at ir.united.com. Information in yesterday's release and the remarks made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements which represent the company's current expectations and are based upon information currently available to the company. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to our earnings release, Form 10-K and 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC by United Airlines Holdings and United Airlines for a more thorough description of these factors.

Unless otherwise noted, we will be discussing our financial metrics on a non-GAAP basis on this call, and historical operational metrics will exclude pandemic years of 2020 to 2022. Please refer to the related definitions and reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures at the end of our earnings release. Joining us in Houston today to discuss our results and outlook are Chief Executive Officer, Scott Kirby; President, Brett Hart; Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, Toby Enqvist; Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Andrew Nocella; and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mike Leskinen. We also have other members of the executive team on the line and available for Q&A.

And now I'd like to flip the call over to Scott.

Scott Kirby
CEO & Director

Thank you, Kristina, and thank you to everyone for joining us today. 2025 had more than its fair share of unusual challenges, but the people of United did a truly remarkable job of living our no-excuses culture, focusing on the customers and overcoming obstacles. Last year, was really a proof point that the strategy we've had to build a revenue-diverse, brand-loyal airline at United for the last decade is not only working, but it's remarkably resilient in tough times as well. The proof is in the numbers, and we expect to be the only U.S. airline that managed to grow EPS year-over-year despite all the headwinds. The United team truly is the best in global aviation, and I'm very proud of them. They have made today's United a remarkably different airline than it was in the past.

Before turning to 2026, I want to wish all the best to a friend and an industry icon, Glen Hauenstein. My first real introduction to what has become modern successful airlines like Delta and United was at Continental in 1994 with Glen and Andrew Nocella as they were dismantling CALight and building the Newark and Houston hubs that we at United are now proud to call our own. I remember Glen once coming into the conference room where I sat and yelled at me for being too loud. Something, by the way, that my wife, Kathleen, wholeheartedly agrees with Glen on. At an airline, I think the most important and impactful job is building a great commercial strategy, and a large modern airline simply cannot succeed without a commercial superstar. Glen and Andrew are simply in a separate league from all the other commercial minds around the globe.

And Glen, on a personal level, given the momentum at United, I'll just say that your retirement timing is impeccable. After a solid year in 2025, 2026 sets up as more of the same at United, but with a much better industry backdrop. Our plan has been working for the last decade and while we make minor adjustments to it every year, the core of building a great revenue-diverse, brand-loyal airline remains the same. We've had the right strategy for a long time now and the United team across the board is just better at executing than any other airline in the world. I'm proud of them and excited as we continue to build the best airline in aviation history.

On to you, Brett.

Brett Hart
President

Thank you, Scott, and good morning. While 2025 presented a challenging macro backdrop for the industry, we remain laser-focused on the customer experience and on building brand loyalty. Continued investments in the travel experience, communication and reliability helped us navigate disruption and deliver for our customers.

Our strong Net Promoter Scores for the year highlight the care and consistency built into the United travel experience. Despite the operational headwinds of the year, we finished 2025 with an almost 3-point increase in our overall Net Promoter Score. And during the month of November, amid an unprecedented government shutdown and real-time flight reductions, we had the best NPS month in the company's history. This is a testament to our customer focus, decisive actions and customer-friendly policies and commitment to transparent communication especially during disruptions. Toby will share in more detail the specific actions we took to produce these customer-friendly results.

We've also continued to innovate, and in the fourth quarter, we introduced new features and more personalized updates in our award-winning United app, including enhanced mobile bag tracking, virtual gate, real-time boarding updates and more detailed arrival information. These enhancements are designed to improve transparency, save customers' time and provide clearer real-time communication at key moments of the journey. With more than 85% of customers using the United app on the day of travel, another one of our competitive advantages and we are confident that these investments are meaningfully enhancing the United experience, earning customer trust at every touchpoint and winning brand-loyal customers.

On labor, we are currently in active negotiations with 4 of our labor unions. We look forward to reaching industry-leading contracts with these groups, and we'll share more when able. We have a bright 2026 ahead of us, and I want to thank our employees for the important work they do every day. I am proud to say they will be receiving over $700 million in well-deserved profit sharing for 2025. Their resilience and shared commitment to our values and customers are what make United strong.

I now hand it over to Toby to discuss our operation.

Toby Enqvist
Executive VP & COO

Thank you, Brett, and I'm happy to join you all on this morning's call. At United, we're proud of our no-excuses culture and last year it was really put to the test as the United operations team confronted a wide array of challenges outside of our control. I'm so proud of how the team responded and delivered for our customers. Capitalizing on investment in our people, new tools and other innovations allowed us to be nimble and react quickly to capacity directives from the FAA and to recover faster and stronger during other irregular operations than ever before.

As a result, we had the highest seat completion factor in our history and #1 of the big 3 legacy carriers in 2025. In fact, at O'Hare in 2025, we canceled half the seat rate of our largest competitor. We flew a record 189 million passengers and ranked #1 in STAR D0 for the second year in a row. For the year, United ranked #2 in on-time departures and #2 in cancellations. Our United Express operation delivered 134 days of perfect completion. This is a remarkable performance in the face of the outside challenges that we face at Newark and staffing challenges at the ATC.

Beginning in the early November, the FAA directed airlines have temporarily reduced departures at 40 major airports due to staffing and system constraints from the prolonged U.S. government shutdown. We work closely with FAA leadership to swiftly implement the reductions, and we want to thank them for their partnership. At United, we were intentional with how we made these cuts. From the start, our priority was protecting the integrity of our network.

We made a clear decision not to cut long-haul international and hub-to-hub flying. Those flights are the backbone of our network and aided in retaining connectivity and flexibility for our customers. We focused on reductions where we could minimize customer impact, with the majority of cuts concentrated on regional flying and non-hub domestic routes with smaller narrowbody aircraft.

In many cases, that meant trimming frequency on routes where there were multiple daily options rather than eliminating connectivity altogether. Where we could, we consolidated flights in fewer departures with larger aircraft to move the same number of customers more efficiently and reducing further disruption. Even with these changes, total cancellations were only approximately 4% of departures during peak periods and had a minimal impact to our capacity in the quarter.

Operationally, I'm very proud of how our team managed the rolling schedule changes. We're no strangers to managing through irregular operation and that has contributed to the speed and flexibility in which we respond to these situations. We published cancellations several days in advance to give peace of mind to our customers and directly communicated any changes through our app and website and focused on reaccommodating customers wherever possible as quickly as able.

Notably, nearly 60% of our customers, who's flights were canceled were rebooked within 4 hours of the original departure time. Any customers traveling during this period could request a refund even if their flight ultimately operated and that included nonrefundable and Basic Economy tickets. It was the right thing to do.

Thank you to each United employee who helped us successfully navigate these real-time schedule changes. We closed out the year on a high note. United delivered the best operation in the industry over the holidays, ranking #1 in on-time departures and on-time arrivals. We canceled less than 1% of our flights during the holidays. And following the Caribbean airspace closure in early 2026, we added 10% more seats over a 3-day period to help customers return home, an outstanding way to close out the busy holiday season.

2025 is a year we should all be proud of, especially given the multiple headwinds United and the industry faced. Running a strong operation sets the foundation for delivering on our financial commitments and it helps attract the brand-loyal customers that we speak so much about. Thank you again to our incredible team here at United, and I look forward to building on our momentum in 2026 together.

Now to you, Andrew, to speak about the revenue environment.

Andrew Nocella
Executive VP & Chief Commercial Officer

Thanks, Toby. United's top line revenues increased 4.8% to $15.4 billion in the quarter on a 6.5% increase in capacity year-over-year. Consolidated TRASM for the quarter was down 1.6%. Q4 was United's highest revenue quarter ever. Premium cabins outperformed main cabin once again in the quarter. Premium cabin revenue were up 12% year-over-year on a 7% more capacity. PRASM for premium cabins outperformed the main cabin by almost 10 points in Q4. Main cabin revenues were up 1% on a 6% more capacity for the quarter. For the year, premium revenues increased approximately 11%, while standard and Basic Economy revenues were down approximately 5%.

We did see a nice bounce back in our international flying in Q4 after a challenging Q3. The Pacific and the Atlantic performed well with PRASM turning positive in both regions. Latin America, on the other hand, had yet another challenging quarter.

Cargo revenues for 2025 were up or were $1.8 billion to -- up 2.1% year-over-year. Loyalty revenues for 2025 were up 9%. Remuneration from global co-brands was up 12% for the year and 14% for the quarter. And for the third year in a row we added over 1 million new co-brand cards. As we look to Q1 2026, we expect to see sequential improvement. The possibility that all regions have positive RASM year-over-year.

Last year did start very strong from a bookings perspective but then dropped off sharply towards the back 3rd of January and for the rest of the quarter. Based on what we've seen so far this year, bookings and yields are outpacing the strong start from last year, and we're hopeful that the momentum will continue, which could admittedly cause our guidance to feel a bit conservative. We also expect the domestic capacity environment to be quite favorable for the first half of 2026 with small but meaningful amount of perennial unprofitable capacity by others leaving the market.

However, in Q1, premium revenues continue to lead the way, while standard main cabin seats continue to show some weakness. This main cabin weakness is due to unprofitable capacity offered by other large spill demand U.S. carriers as ULCC capacity becomes less relevant. We also have a tailwind in Newark later this spring with operations running well. We expect Newark to give United a unique RASM tailwind versus the industry considering the events last spring.

With the number of flights now limited to what the runways can accommodate, our customers can and are booking in confidence. We did make aggressive Latin capacity adjustments for Q1 to correct underperformance we saw in Q3 and Q4. However, recent geopolitical events are having a measurable negative impact on bookings in the Caribbean. Yet, we still have a chance at positive Latin RASM depending on when concern dissipates.

All United hubs were once again profitable in Q4 and for all of 2025. A fully profitable hub framework allows United to invest incremental capacity on a solid foundation. We think we're only 1 of 2 large U.S. carriers that can say all their hubs are profitable in 2025, and these same 2 carriers are expected to represent the bulk of industry profits in the year. We also believe that of the 3 airline hubs located in Chicago, only United's hub was profitable in 2025, and we expect it will be profitable again once again in 2026.

Today, I also wanted to talk about our commercial focus points for 2026 to drive higher RASMs and margins. Our first focus will be new seasonal capacity shaping of our long-haul schedule. Peak demand for international travel has spread from the second and third quarters to other parts of the year. As a result of this shift, we expect the fastest-growing quarter for United's international capacity to be Q1 in 2026 with minimal growth in Q3. Flattening capacity across the quarters would have not been correct in 2019, but it is today.

A second focus will be enhanced merchandising of our growing product lineup. We plan to increase segmentation and customer choices with our changes, which we'll announce in early 2026. This effort includes the largest redesign of united.com in a decade. Our third focus will be enhanced connectivity. We will soon approach the connectivity goals we set in 2021 with the United Next Plan by 2027. As a result, 2025 represents United's high watermark on domestic capacity growth as we draw this very successful part of the United Next plan to an end.

Our fourth focus will be MileagePlus, enhancing the growth potential in the coming years via drawing a larger distinction between true loyalty programs and reward programs offered by others. We have a legacy contract that continues with our banking partners regarding core economics, but we still have plenty of ideas to boost growth in revenue in the meantime. And premiumization is our fifth focus in 2026. We've had this premium focus for almost 8 years now. And while our lead is now being followed by a range of other U.S. carriers, it's United's 7 business-centric hubs that dictate this plan and why we expect to be more successful at it.

Last spring, we announced our new Elevated interior for our widebody jets, including the new United Polaris Studio suites, Polaris suites with doors, along with countless other upgrades to the soft product. 4 Elevated 787s are now being prepared for delivery in the coming weeks, and we expect 16 more for the remainder of 2026. These aircraft, along with other new deliveries will result in our premium capacity growth accounting for more than half our growth in '26.

We look forward to another innovative set of products and aircraft announcements in 2026. United is defining what premium means for all customers, no matter where they sit or what they pay. Our United Signature Interior mods and Starlink installs are now moving at pace and will be completed in 2027, creating consistent premium product we hoped for when we announced United Next in 2021.

A quick but important preview for 2027 is our long-term focus on gauge. While gauge is not a focus in '26, it will be in '27 and beyond as a much higher percentage of our growth equation. Most of our commercial focus areas in '26, of course, ladder up to decommoditizing our product, providing consumers with more choices and winning a higher share of brand loyal customers. We like our plan. We remain focused on doing more of the same in the coming years.

With that, I offer my thanks to the entire United team for a great but challenging 2025 and hand it off to Mike to talk about our financial results. Mike?

Michael Leskinen
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Andrew. We closed out 2025 on a high note and delivered fourth quarter earnings per share of $3.10 within our guidance range of $3 to $3.50 and that's despite a $250 million impact to our pretax earnings from the government shutdown. 2025 was a challenging year for the airline industry. Between macro volatility and idiosyncratic challenges at Newark, each quarter of 2025 experienced a material event that pressured earnings and further widened the performance gap between industry leaders and laggards.

Our full year 2025 EPS came in at $10.62 which was slightly up versus 2024 and despite an $0.85 headwind from our challenges at Newark. I expect we will be the only U.S. airline to grow EPS last year. This is an incredible proof point of United's ability to execute through times of elevated uncertainty when most of the industry cannot.

An airline with a business anchored by brand-loyal customers isn't only more profitable, it's also more resilient. Our plan is working, and I'd like to thank the entire United team for their hard work in the face of all these challenges. I'd particularly like to thank our frontline flight attendants, pilots and customer service representatives. Through an extraordinarily difficult time during the government shutdown, you served our customers, leading to the highest Net Promoter Scores in United's history.

Over the last year, we've invested $1 billion in the customer and, as a result, customers are taking note. From larger clubs to free StarLink Wi-Fi to United product offering as well as further segmentation continues to attract more and more brand-loyal customers, driving strong top line performance and more durable earnings. The investment in the customer has been enabled by our industry-leading efforts to drive cost efficiencies across the core business. In the fourth quarter, our CASM-ex year-over-year was up only 0.4%, bringing our full year 2025 CASM-ex up to 0.4% as well. We expect this performance to be industry-leading and will continue to drive efficiencies across the business in 2026.

Now turning to the outlook. Looking to the first quarter, we expect earnings per share to be between $1 and $1.50, an approximately 37% earnings improvement versus the first quarter of last year at the midpoint and margin expansion year-over-year. Building off a strong quarter, for the full year 2026, we expect earnings per share to be between $12 and $14. At the midpoint, this represents over 20% growth and implies continued margin expansion as we march towards double-digit margins.

Turning to the fleet. This year, we expect to take delivery of over 100 aircraft -- 100 narrowbody aircraft and approximately 20 widebody aircraft. Accordingly, we expect our capital expenditures for the year to be less than $8 billion consistent with the $7 billion to $9 billion multiyear CapEx guidance we provided back in 2024. On the balance sheet, becoming investment-grade rated is a major priority of mine, and in 2025, we made meaningful progress towards investment-grade metrics. We paid off $1.9 billion of our high-cost COVID-era debt and brought our total cost of debt down to 4.7%. Our net leverage at the end of the year was 2.2x.

As a result of our deleveraging efforts, combined with our earnings power and industry bifurcation, we've received 5 upgrades to our credit ratings across Moody's, S&P and Fitch over the last 13 months. United is now just one notch below investment grade at all 3 agencies, our highest ratings in over 25 years. In 2026, we plan to delever further and target net leverage below 2x with the intention of achieving investment-grade metrics by year-end. We're hopeful to achieve investment-grade rating shortly thereafter and are committed to managing our balance sheet to achieve that goal.

Free cash flow generation remains a key priority. In 2025, we generated $2.7 billion in free cash flow, and in 2026, we expect to deliver a similar level of free cash flow given higher aircraft deliveries. In the medium term, we expect free cash conversion to remain around 50%. And as we exit the decade, we continue to expect free cash conversion to expand to around 75%. On the buyback, we have $782 million left in authorization from our Board of Directors. We will continue to balance our priority of being investment grade with making opportunistic purchases of our shares when market opportunities present themselves, hopefully less frequently.

2025 proved United could effectively manage through macro volatility and company-specific challenges while also delivering resilient earnings. Our relative margins remain strong and moving forward our focus will be on continued margin expansion and achieving double-digit margins. The industry continues to transform, and competitive dynamics are evolving with United firmly in the lead. Taken together, United Airlines is positioned for another year of growth and success that will drive value to our employees, our customers and our shareholders.

Now back to Kristina to kick off the Q&A.

Kristina Munoz
Managing Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Mike. We will now take questions from the analyst community. Please limit yourself to one question and if needed, one brief follow-up question as we hope to get to as many of you as possible. Colby, please describe the procedure to ask a question.

