Uber Technologies, Inc. (UBER) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Balaji Krishnamurthy
Dara Khosrowshahi - CEO & Director
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Douglas Anmuth - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Eric Sheridan - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Brian Nowak - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Justin Post - BofA Securities, Research Division
Ronald Josey - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Ross Sandler - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
John Colantuoni - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Nikhil Devnani - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to the Uber Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Balaji Krishnamurthy, Vice President, Strategic Finance, Investor Relations. You may begin.

Balaji Krishnamurthy

Thank you, Sarah. Thank you, everyone, for joining us today, and welcome to Uber's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Presentation.

On the call today, we have Uber CEO, Dara Khosrowshahi; and CFO, Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah.

During today's call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures and additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures, including a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures are included in the press release, supplemental slides and our filings with the SEC, each of which is posted to investor.uber.com.

Certain statements in this presentation and on this call are forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Actual results may vary -- may differ materially from these forward-looking statements, and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements we make today, except as required by law. For more information about factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, please refer to the press release we issued today as well as risks and uncertainties described in our most recent Form 10-K and in other filings made with the SEC. We published our quarterly earnings press release, prepared remarks and supplemental slides to our Investor Relations website earlier today, and we ask you to review those documents if you haven't already. We will open the call to questions following brief opening remarks from Dara. With that, let me hand it over to Dara.

Dara Khosrowshahi
CEO & Director

Thanks, Balaji. Q3 was an outstanding quarter for Uber, driven by a powerful combination of innovation and execution. Trips grew 22%, marking our fastest growth since 2023. Both lines of business accelerated with mobility trips coring 21%, significantly exceeding our expectations. This top line strength was fueled by record audience and engagement, up 17% and 4%, respectively.

Gross bookings grew 21%, while average pricing remained relatively flat. This translated into record adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow, reinforcing our ability to deliver affordability for consumers while generating strong operating leverage. We're expecting more of the same strong performance in Q4 with another quarter of high teens gross bookings growth and low to mid-30s EBITDA growth. In fact, we hit a new record over Halloween weekend, this most recent Halloween with more than 130 million trips across Mobility and Delivery and generating more than $2 billion in gross bookings.

While we're proud of what we built, we're even more focused on what comes next. As I often remind the team, great technology companies deliver today while building for tomorrow. To that end, we've defined six strategic areas of focus to guide our next phase.

First, from Trip experience to Lifetime experience. We're deepening engagement across our platform with cross-platform consumers spending 3x more and retaining 35% better than single product users. Second is building a hybrid future, seamlessly integrating human drivers and autonomous vehicles into a single marketplace, giving us unmatched flexibility and efficiency. Third, investing in local commerce, expanding rapidly into grocery retail now and an approximately $12 billion gross bookings run rate and growing significantly faster than restaurant delivery.

Fourth is multiple gigs. This is broadening earning opportunities for 9.4 million drivers and couriers, including new digital tasks powered by Uber AI solutions. Fifth is becoming a growth engine for merchants, helping our over 1.2 million merchant partners drive significant incremental sales through ads, offers and new demand channels like Uber Direct as well as new partnerships. And then finally, Generative AI, embedding intelligence across Uber to enhance productivity, optimize our operations and deliver more personalized consumer experiences. You'll see us invest in these areas with our product, our people and our capital in the years ahead. They're designed to deepen customer relationships, grow our technology advantage and to extend the profitability flywheel that we built. The strong execution, a unified global platform and unmatched scale, we're building the next generation of Uber, one that's positioned to create lasting value for many, many years ahead.

With that, operator, why don't we start questions?