Uranium Energy Corp. (UEC) Q1 2026 Earnings Call December 10, 2025 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Amir Adnani - President, CEO & Director
Brent Berg - Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations
Scott Melbye - Executive Vice President

Conference Call Participants

Brian Lee - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Heiko Ihle - H.C. Wainwright & Co, LLC, Research Division
Katie Lachapelle - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
Joseph Reagor - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Justin Chan - SCP Resource Finance LP, Research Division
Mohamed Sidibe - National Bank Financial, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to Uranium Energy Corp.'s Fiscal 2026 First Quarter Results Conference Call. Today's call will be hosted by Amir Adnani, President and CEO. Also joining for the Q&A session of today's call are Josephine Man, Chief Financial Officer; Scott Melbye, Executive Vice President; and Brent Berg, Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations. [Operator Instructions]. Please note this event is being recorded. Today's call will run approximately 15 minutes for prepared remarks followed by Q&A. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the conference over to Amir Adnani, President and CEO. Please go ahead.

Amir Adnani
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Please note that a presentation accompanying this conference call is available on the Presentations page of our website. Some of the commentary on today's call will include forward-looking statements and I would direct everyone to review Slide 2 of the presentation, which includes important cautionary notes.

All right. Let's get started. This quarter was an exciting step change for UEC with major production expansion initiatives and the introduction of a strategic new business line. The launch of United States Uranium Refining & Conversion Corp positions the company to become the only U.S. supplier with both Uranium and UF6 production capabilities. In parallel, we maintained low-cost in-situ recovery production and advanced our growth projects in Wyoming and South Texas, supporting higher output through the balance of fiscal 2026. These developments strengthen our platform as America's largest integrated nuclear fuel supplier aligned with U.S. policy. We continue to enjoy the backdrop of increasingly favorable macroeconomic and policy tailwinds and as such, have continued to increase our Uranium inventory ahead of the Section 232 decision.

A year ago at this time, we had just resumed operations at Christensen Ranch. In only 12 months, we have delivered low-cost production at our first mine, are positioned for near-term production at our second mine Burke Hollow and are excited to have commenced development at our third mine, Ludeman.

In the first quarter, we maintained low-cost production as we achieved a cash cost per pound of $29.90 based on 68,612 pounds of precipitated uranium and dried and drummed U308 produced. At our Irigaray central processing plant, upgrades were completed to support the transition to 24/7 operations including a full refurbishment of the yellowcake thickener and calciner. After quarter end, drying and packaging operations resumed on November 13, 2025, producing approximately 49,000 pounds of dried and drummed U308, subsequent to that date during the month of November.

At Christensen Ranch, the focus has been on expanding ISR production capacity through the construction of 6 additional header houses in new wellfields 11 and 12 and 10 extension. Further, we have commenced development at our Ludeman ISR project, the company's second satellite project in the Powder River Basin to our Irigaray hub-and-spoke operations. At Burke Hollow, we are nearing operational status, major construction milestones, including the ion-exchange plant and wellfield are substantially complete, setting the stage for initial operations at South Texas' newest ISR production facility and for Burke Hollow to become America's next producing uranium mine. These advancements position the company for higher production rates through the remainder of the fiscal year as new capacity comes online.

Switching gears to our development assets. At Sweetwater, work is progressing under the FAST-41 permitting designation for the project. Planning of initial delineation drilling in the first wellfield area and assessment of the mill refurbishment plans were advanced. At Roughrider, a 34,000 meters core drilling program commenced in October 2025 to target the conversion of inferred to indicated uranium resources to support the announced pre-feasibility study for the world-class high-grade Roughrider project in Saskatchewan, Canada and the prolific Athabasca Basin. And finally, the launch of United States Uranium Refining and Conversion Corp, positions UEC to provide end-to-end capabilities of the secure geopolitically-reliable source of uranium hexafluoride, supporting U.S. enrichment.

Moving to our financial highlights on Slide 5. Our balance sheet remains strong with $698 million in cash, inventory and equities at market prices and no debt. We completed a $234 million public offering to accelerate the growth of our new business line while bolstering our balance sheet. Our uranium inventory stands at 1,356,000 pounds U308 held at October 31, 2025, which excludes the additional 199,000 pounds of precipitated uranium and dried and drum uranium concentrate at the Irigaray CPT produced since we restarted production. We also expect to purchase an additional 300,000 pounds through the end of this month from purchase contracts at below market rates of $37.05 per pound in addition to growing inventory from operations.

By remaining 100% unhedged, we maintain full exposure ahead of the results of the U.S. government's Section 232 investigation, while in a tightening global market with a structural supply deficit, positioning UEC to benefit from expected higher uranium prices. Our financial strength, coupled with the efficiency of our low-cost ISR operations, enables us to ramp production responsibly as market fundamentals and policy direction evolve. The current uranium price backdrop underpinned by growing global nuclear demand and supportive U.S. policy provides a compelling setup for value creation. Importantly, the launch of URNC positions UEC to be the only vertically integrated American uranium producer. We are moving quickly. During the quarter, we commissioned the detailed feasibility study with Fluor and have begun hiring key technical and project personnel. Federal stakeholder discussions are ongoing and an extensive siting process has been commenced with potential host states and local governments.

This initiative builds on UEC's existing uranium platform, advancing a fully American supply chain aligned with U.S. energy policy and defense needs. As a reminder, we are focused on 4 key pillars of production growth, the Powder River Basin hub-and-spoke operations anchored by our Irigaray central processing plant in Wyoming, the South Texas hub-and-spoke operations anchored by our Hobson CPP, the Sweetwater hub-and-spoke operations anchored by our Sweetwater plant in Wyoming; and finally, the Roughrider project in Canada. We are actively advancing each of these growth pillars and have provided a detailed update in our quarterly news release. I will now focus on our operating activities in the Powder River Basin and South Texas.

Moving to the next slide. We will start with the Powder River Basin hub-and-spoke operations. Since the resumption of operations and as of October 31, 2025, accumulated production from Christensen Ranch was approximately 199,000 pounds of precipitated uranium and dried and drum U308 at our Irigaray CPP. As part of the ongoing production ramp-up, UEC continued to develop new production areas at Christensen Ranch. Mine development advanced with active well installation, piloting casing and under reading in wellfields 11 and 12 and delineation drilling in wellfields 8 and 10 extensions. Additionally, construction continued on 6 new header houses in wellfields 11, 12 and 10 extension. These new production areas will form the base for UEC's future production plans at Christensen Ranch.

In parallel, process upgrades at our IriGaray CPP continued in the first quarter of fiscal 2026, including a full rebuild of one of 2 yellow cake thickeners, replacing the rake, gearbox and motor, along with the repair of replacement of multiple calciner components. Together with the refurbishment completed at Christensen Ranch earlier in the year, these timely investments are expected to support higher production rates in addition to improved operational efficiency and performance. We are excited to announce that development plans have commenced at the Ludeman satellite project. This is a fully licensed and permitted project that will be constructed as a satellite ion exchange plant, sending uranium loaded resin to the Irigaray CPP for resin elution precipitation, drying and packaging.

Just 10 miles northeast of Glenrock Wyoming, delineation drilling in the first production area at Ludeman commenced on November 19, 2025, with 200 holes planned. The delineation drilling will assist wellfield pattern design. Ludeman's SK 1300 compliant resources are 9.7 million pounds of measured and indicated and 1.3 million pounds of inferred uranium. 41 monitor wells are already installed for the first production area and baseline water quality sampling is planned for these wells in Q4 fiscal '26. Engineering for the satellite plant is in progress using internal technical expertise with external engineering planned to commence in January 2026.

Design and procurement of the ion exchange vessels for the plant is also underway. Just as a reminder that in the Powder River Basin, the Irigaray CPP has a license capacity of 4 million pounds per year, surrounded by 17 satellite projects, 4 of which are fully permitted, including Christensen Ranch and Ludeman. Turning to South Texas. Construction of the Burke Hollow ion exchange facility and first production area progressed on schedule during the quarter with key advances made across well field development and processing infrastructure. All large diameter tanks have been installed at the ion exchange facility and testing of the disposal well was completed with the state regulatory agency in attendance. The utility provider completed the installation of 3-phase power into the project site and all facilities have been energized.

Well completion and mechanical integrity testing reports are underway following completion of construction. The company's workforce in South Texas has grown to 86 personnel in preparation for start-up of the Burke Hollow project. As we close out calendar 2025, the macro backdrop for uranium has never been this encouraging with strong bipartisan support for safe, clean, reliable nuclear energy. We see strong support from the U.S. government, including the recent designation of uranium as a critical mineral. Big tech is a key component of new demand and with the largest hyperscalers continuing to invest heavily in the energy sector to secure the necessary power required for their massive data center investments. Overarching all of this is the fundamental supply deficit, which is expected to exceed 1.7 billion pounds by 2045 on a cumulative basis.

As I've stated before, we have never seen a more positive policy environment for our industry. In summary, this quarter, UEC has neared an exciting inflection point of growing from a single asset producer towards diversified uranium production while becoming a U.S. origin supply chain from mine to conversion. UEC is uniquely positioned to meet the growing demand for secure domestic uranium supply. We're excited about the opportunities ahead and look forward to delivering further value to our shareholders. Before I turn it back to the operator, a couple of points. First, today's call is scheduled to conclude around noon Eastern. If we don't get to your question, please don't hesitate to reach out to our Investor Relations team, and we'll be happy to follow up directly.

Second, please note that I'm joined today by Josephine Man, our Chief Financial Officer; Scott Melbye, our Executive Vice President; and Brent Berg, our Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations. Together, the four of us are backed by UEC team with more than 900 years of combined experience in the uranium industry. That depth of experience is what drives our daily execution across operations finance and strategy. With that, we'll open the call to questions. Operator, please go ahead.