UniFirst Corporation (UNF) Q1 2026 Earnings Call January 7, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Shane O’Connor - CFO & Executive VP
Steven Sintros - President, CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Ronan Kennedy
Timothy Mulrooney - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Joshua Chan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Alexander EM Hess - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Q1 2026 UniFirst Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Shane O'Connor, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Shane O’Connor
CFO & Executive VP

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me today is Steven Sintros, President and Chief Executive Officer. We will review our first quarter results for fiscal year 2026, but first, a brief disclaimer. This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. The words anticipate, optimistic, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions that indicate future events and trends identify forward-looking statements. Actual future results may differ materially from those anticipated, depending upon a variety of risk factors. For more information, please refer to the discussion of these risk factors in our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Steve.

Steven Sintros
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Shane, and good morning, everyone. Our first quarter results were largely in line with expectations, our expectations and our outlook for the full year remains unchanged. Revenues increased to $621.3 million, up 2.7% from the prior year period. Consistent with our guidance, operating income and adjusted EBITDA declined year-over-year reflecting the impact of planned investments designed to accelerate growth and improve operating leverage as well as higher-than-anticipated health care claims and legal costs during the quarter.

As we discussed in our last call, we've been making investments in our sales and services organizations to build a stronger, more sustainable platform for accelerated growth. In addition to making targeted additions to our sales team during the second half of fiscal '25, we invested in strengthening our service teams, expanding both capacity and stability. These enhancements position us to drive improved performance across all key aspects of our growth model and are beginning to show up in our operating metric improvements like account retention, new account sales and additional product placements with our existing customers.

In addition to driving top line growth and the resulting benefits to our drop-through margins, we continue to invest in and execute in several initiatives that we believe will meaningfully enhance our profitability over time. As we have previously discussed, these priorities include operational excellence, driven by the continued adoption of the UniFirst Way, our enterprise-wide operating framework focused on scalable, repeatable processes to enable consistent execution, operational efficiency and continuous improvement.

Enhanced inventory management, procurement and sourcing driven by our ongoing ERP implementation, which is improving inventory sharing, centralizing procurement and expanding our global sourcing base and enabling enhanced supply chain execution. And G&A productivity driven by our broader digital transformation, which is designed to enhance scalability, cost discipline and operating leverage.

Turning to our segments. Our core Uniform and Facility Service Solutions business delivered solid organic growth of 2.4%, with positive performance across both sales and service operations. New customer wins exceeded those in the same period last year and customer retention continued its positive trajectory, logging a second year in a row of quarter-over-quarter improvement. We also grew facility service product placements within our customer base, underscoring the breadth of our offerings, the durability of our customer relationships and the long-term cross-selling opportunities embedded in our platform.

In our First Aid Safety Solutions segment, we continued our momentum with robust revenue growth of 15.3%, primarily reflecting the investments we have made in our First Aid van business, including some small bolt-on acquisitions. Although growth during the quarter was somewhat tempered by a softer employment climate affecting both rental and direct sale accounts, we remain confident that our ongoing investments are yielding measurable improvements in the key areas of our growth model.

Our balance sheet and overall financial position remain robust. We maintained our disciplined approach to capital allocation focused on investing in growth and returning capital to our shareholders. Underscoring the Board and management team's confidence in our strategy, execution and long-term growth prospects, we repurchased approximately $32 million of common stock during the quarter and over $77 million in the past 2 quarters. and again, increase the common stock dividend.

As always, I want to sincerely thank our team partners who continue to always deliver for each other and our customers. Every day, our team partners live our mission of serving the people who do the hard work. The people and workforce who keep our communities up and running by providing the exceptional products, services and support experience that enable them to do their job successfully and safely. Through our always delivered philosophy, we remain committed to creating value for all stakeholders, including our employees, customers, the communities we serve and shareholders.

On that note, I want to briefly address the unsolicited nonbinding proposal we received from Cintas recently. As we stated in our December 22 press release, the UniFirst Board of Directors has engaged independent financial and legal advisers to evaluate the proposal and determine the course of action that it believes is in the best interest of UniFirst, our shareholders and our other stakeholders. That work remains ongoing, and we will provide an update as soon as it has been completed.

I also want to acknowledge the active dialogue our management team and Board have had in recent weeks with many of our shareholders. We look forward to further constructive engagement to advance our common goal of enhancing shareholder value.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Shane, who will provide more details on our first quarter results as well as our outlook for the remainder of the year.

Shane O’Connor
CFO & Executive VP

Thanks, Steve. Consolidated revenues in our first quarter of 2026 were $621.3 million compared to $604.9 million a year ago and consolidated operating income was $45.3 million compared to $55.5 million. Net income for the quarter decreased to $34.4 million or $1.89 per diluted share from $43.1 million or $2.31 per diluted share. Consolidated adjusted EBITDA was $82.8 million compared to $94 million in the prior year.

Our effective tax rate increased to 26.9% compared to 25.6% in the prior year primarily due to the timing and amount of excess tax benefits and deficiencies related to employee share-based payments. Although we had a higher tax rate in the first quarter, we still believe that our tax rate for the full year will be approximately 26%. Our financial results in the first quarters of fiscal 2026 and 2025 included approximately $2.3 million and $2.5 million, respectively, and costs directly attributable to our ongoing ERP project or key initiatives.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2026 and 2025, these costs decreased operating income and adjusted EBITDA by $2.3 million and $2.5 million, respectively. Net income by $1.7 million and $1.8 million, respectively, and diluted EPS by $0.09 for both periods. The revenues in our Uniform and Facility Service Solutions segment increased to $565.9 million during the quarter compared to $552.8 million in the first quarter of 2025. Segment's organic growth, which adjusts for the estimated effect of acquisitions as well as fluctuations in the Canadian dollar, was 2.4%, driven by strong new account sales and improved customer retention.

Uniform and Facility Service Solutions operating margin was 7.4% for the quarter were $41.8 million, compared to 8.8% in the previous year were $48.5 million, and the segment's adjusted EBITDA margin was 13.6% compared to 15.4% in the previous year. The costs we incurred related to our key initiatives were recorded to this segment and decreased both the Uniform and Facility Service Solutions operating and adjusted EBITDA margins by 0.4% and 0.5% and in the first quarters of fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively.

Segment's operating and adjusted EBITDA margin comparisons reflect the planned investments in accelerating growth and improving operating leverage as well as the increased health care claims expense and legal costs during the quarter that Steve discussed. Energy costs in the first quarter of 2026 were 4.1% of revenues. Our First Aid and Safety Solutions revenues increased by 15.3% to $30.2 million from $26.2 million in prior year, driven by double-digit growth in our van operations. Segment had a nominal operating loss of $0.4 million during the quarter, reflecting the investments we made to drive continued growth and improved profitability in the First Aid and Safety Solutions van business.

Revenues from our Other segment, which consists of our specialized nuclear decontamination services decreased 2.9% to $25.2 million from $25.9 million in prior year, reflecting the anticipated start of a large refurbishment project wind down and fewer reactor outages. Segment's operating margin for the quarter was 15.4%, down from prior year due to the high fixed cost nature of the business.

As we have mentioned in the past, the segment's results can vary significantly from period to period due to seasonality as well as the timing and profitability of nuclear reactor outages and projects. At the end of our first fiscal quarter, we maintained a solid balance sheet and financial position with cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $129.5 million and no long-term debt.

The first 3 months of fiscal 2026, our free cash flows were impacted by lower profitability and heavy working capital needs of the business, including merchandise and service, primarily related to the installation of a couple of large national account customers as well as the timing of income tax payments and vendor payments. We continue to invest in our future with capital expenditures of $38.9 million, repurchased $31.7 million worth of common stock and acquired 4 First Aid businesses for $14.9 million.

As Steve mentioned, we are reaffirming our full year fiscal 2026 guidance with a consolidated revenue range of $2.475 billion to $2.495 billion and fully diluted earnings per share between $6.58 and $6.98. This guidance continues to include an estimated $7 million of costs directly attributable to our key initiative that we anticipate will be expensed in fiscal 2026. As a reminder, our guidance does not assume future share buybacks.

This concludes our prepared remarks, and we would now be happy to answer your questions. Given Steve's update on the Cintas matter, we do not intend to be answering any additional questions regarding that situation and ask that you please focus your questions on our first quarter results and 2026 outlook. Thank you.

