United Natural Foods, Inc. (UNFI) Q1 2026 Earnings Call December 2, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Steve Bloomquist - Vice President Investor Relations
James Alexander Douglas - CEO & Director
Giorgio Tarditi - President & CFO

Conference Call Participants

John Heinbockel - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Mark Carden - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Kelly Bania - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Charles Cerankosky - Northcoast Research Partners, LLC
Leah Jordan - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Scott Mushkin - R5 Capital LLC
Peter Saleh - BTIG, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the UNFI First Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Bloomquist, Vice President of Investor Relations. You may begin.

Steve Bloomquist
Vice President Investor Relations

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on UNFI's First Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Conference Call. By now you should have received a copy of the earnings release from this morning, the press release and earnings presentation, which management will speak to are available under the Investors section of the company's website at www.unfi.com.

We've also included a supplemental disclosure file in Microsoft Excel with the financial information.

Joining me for today's call are Sandy Douglas, our Chief Executive Officer; and Matteo Tarditi, our President and Chief Financial Officer. Sandy and Matteo will provide a business update, after which we'll take your questions.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that comments made by management during today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include plans, expectations, estimates and projections that might involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks are discussed in the company's earnings release and SEC filings.

Actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in these forward-looking statements. I'd like to point out that during today's call, management will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Definitions and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our press release and the end of our earnings presentation.

I'd now ask you to turn to Slide 6 of our presentation as I turn the call over to Sandy.

James Alexander Douglas
CEO & Director

Thanks, Steve, and thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning. In the first quarter of fiscal 2026, UNFI delivered solid results, including adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow meaningfully above prior year levels, while net leverage declined approximately 1 turn compared to the prior year quarter.

Importantly, we delivered these results amidst an operating environment that remains highly dynamic. Our first quarter net sales performance was driven by sustained natural and organic product growth, new business projects and strong retail execution across our customer base. Positive sales in our Natural Products segment largely offset declines in our Conventional Products segment, consistent with our expectations as part of our accelerated network optimization efforts, most notably at Allentown, which have proceeded ahead of schedule.

As we improve our network, we're focused on continuing to improve service levels for our customers and suppliers in a growing $90 billion target market and on further increasing our long-term profitability. Our adjusted EBITDA growth in the first quarter continued to be driven by improving execution, effectiveness and efficiency across the business. This reflects actions taken within our value delivery office to help support gross margins as well as continued progress managing shrink.

Free cash flow results improved by over $100 million compared to last year's first quarter, even as we took necessary steps to stock up on the inventory our customers need in advance of a high-volume holiday selling season that is now well underway. This performance enabled us to both improve fill rates and reduce net leverage sequentially compared to the end of fiscal 2025 and from prior year levels.

As a result of our solid Q1 performance, we're firmly on track to achieve our full year outlook, and we remain focused on executing our strategy, adding value for our customers and suppliers while becoming a more effective and efficient company. During the first quarter, we continued to make progress in both areas. I'll start with how we're adding value for our customers and suppliers.

At UNFI, we aim to do more than safely receive store and transport food. We're working to bring our customers the products, insights, programs and services that will help them execute their strategies and successfully differentiate themselves in a highly competitive environment. We know this environment is increasingly challenging, especially for traditional grocers. This is why we aren't stopping with what we can do for our customers and suppliers today. We're focused on what we can do to help them succeed for years to come. Our Commercial organization is working to revamp and strengthen our merchandising capabilities as a competitive advantage for our customers, because we believe tailored merchandising and competitive pricing on key items is critical to helping retailers more effectively differentiate and compete. This focus also helps our suppliers successfully build their brands across the diversified 30,000-plus retail locations that we serve.

A critical part of our broader merchandising capability is supported by our private brands portfolio. During the quarter, we appointed a new leader for this business with deep knowledge of how private brands can help retailers differentiate and drive value for consumers. We also continued taking action to improve the experience for independent customers and emerging suppliers who are critical to the vitality of our industry.

In fact, an early focus of our lean management Kaizen workshops has been to troubleshoot some of the areas that buyers have told us are important to them, such as time-to-shelf. Following a recent Kaizen continuous improvement workshop, we took swift action to improve item setup forms and processes to streamline the new items that are processed. This type of action not only directly helps our suppliers but also our customers by ensuring that they get access to innovative products that their shoppers want.

Turning to our focus on improving effectiveness and efficiency. In the first quarter, we took additional steps on our operational road map to pair advanced supply chain technologies with processes and capabilities that empower UNFI associates to champion operational excellence. We recently deployed the supply chain technology Relex across about half of our distribution network, with the second half expected to be completed by fiscal year-end.

This solution is helping us partner with our customers and suppliers to make smarter procurement decisions by using an AI-based platform, predict demand, avoid waste and reduce out of stocks. It is helping to deliver improved fill rates and inventory effectiveness as we expected, and we anticipate further benefits as we complete the rollout this year.

At the same time, we continue to scale lean daily management across our distribution network with 34 DCs now on-boarded through first quarter's end. In these DCs, we continue to see encouraging improvements in our KPIs for safety, quality, delivery and cost, all as a result of empowering our associates to see and solve problems faster and more effectively. Together, Relex and Lean are driving effectiveness and efficiency across our network. Our customer fill rates have improved and are now trending above fiscal 2024 and 2025 levels on average.

We still have work to do, but we see even more opportunities to improve as we continue to scale these initiatives in the months ahead.

During the first quarter, we also continued to optimize our network following the actions we took last fiscal year to streamline parts of our footprint while also strategically investing to support future growth. These actions were completed at an accelerated pace relative to our initial expectations. Our optimization efforts are enabling us to serve customers and suppliers through strategically located facilities with broad assortments while removing redundant and wasteful costs.

These actions have enabled us to continue to make network improvements and contributed meaningfully to our improved results.

During the first quarter, we ramped operations at our new automated natural product distribution center in Sarasota, Florida, which is expected to help address strong demand in that area. By combining the power of an optimized portfolio with the right mix of technology, processes and people, we are building a more responsive and resilient supply chain to support customer and supplier needs today and into the future.

At next week's Investor Day, we'll provide a closer look at the key capabilities that we're building to add more value for customers and suppliers and continue to drive effectiveness and efficiency across our business. We also look forward to giving everyone a chance to hear directly from several of the talented UNFI leaders who are leading this important work.

Together, all of us at UNFI remain focused on becoming the food retail industry's most valued partner. Our first quarter performance reinforces our confidence in our ability to continue to create sustainable long-term value for our customers, suppliers, associates and shareholders. With that, let me turn it over to Matteo to provide more detail about our first quarter performance. Matteo?

Giorgio Tarditi
President & CFO

Thank you, Sandy, and good morning, everyone. Our first quarter results reflect our focus on building capabilities to better support our customers while simultaneously improving profitability and free cash flow, resulting in meaningful progress on our de-leveraging efforts. We're also affirming our annual outlook for all key financial metrics. Today, I will provide additional insight into our first quarter results, our financial position and capital structure and our fiscal 2026 outlook. With that, let's review our Q1 results.

Starting with Slide 8. Our first quarter sales came in at $7.8 billion, roughly flat to last year. This includes natural segment growth of 11% and reflecting strong unit growth, which outperformed the market. This growth, as Sandy mentioned, was driven by the performance of our customers, some new business products for existing customers as well as the continued secular strength in our natural, organic and specialty products.

In Conventional, as we anticipated and previously discussed, sales declined about 12% primarily driven by our accretive transition out of our Allentown Distribution Center, which was completed ahead of our expectations. While this move pressure the top line it supports improved profitability and free cash flow. Overall, wholesale inflation was about 3%. Unit volumes declined about 5%, driven primarily by network optimization and mix was positive during the quarter.

In retail, total sales fell 5% in the quarter, partly due to store closures over the past 12 months, reflecting our strategic decision to strengthen the store network improve future free cash flow. Same-store sales declined 3%, but we are optimistic about the impact that David Best and the strengthened leadership team will have on this business.

Moving to Slide 9, let's review profitability drivers in the quarter. Our gross margin rate in the first quarter was 13.4%, up 20 basis points versus the prior year quarter. This rate represents continued progress and execution to optimize our portfolio, our event supplier programs and higher levels of temporary procurement gains resulting from vendor price increases. Our operating expense rate was 12.7% of net sales compared to 12.9% last year. This improvement reflects the benefit of our effectiveness and efficiency initiatives driven by our value delivery office, network optimization, including continued strategic automation investments and acceleration of lean daily management across UNFI.

In addition, throughput, a key indicator of supply chain productivity measured by cases moving through the DCs over an hour increased by over 2% compared to last year's first quarter and by nearly 10% from Q1 2024.

Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter was $167 million, up nearly 25% year-over-year. On a rate basis, adjusted EBITDA was 2.1% of net sales up 40 basis points year-over-year. All in, adjusted EPS for Q1 was $0.56 compared to $0.16 last year. This was driven by higher profitability including the benefit of lower net interest and depreciation expense, partially offset by a higher tax rate.

Turning to Slide 10. Free cash flow in Q1 was a use of $54 million which was an improvement of about $105 million compared to last year's first quarter. This was the result of higher adjusted EBITDA, more efficient working capital investment and lower levels of year-over-year capital spending.

We continue to expect capital investments to accelerate as we move further into the year based on the expected project schedule. The free cash flow performance in Q1, coupled with the higher adjusted EBITDA enabled us to lower our net leverage ratio sequentially to 3.2x and by 1 full turn compared to this time last year.

Historically, we have seen net leverage increase as we move from Q4 to Q1, and build inventory heading into the holiday season. However, our focus on customer service, combined with improved procurement processes and early benefits of Relex have led to higher average fee rates, while we continue to reduce net leverage.

With the strong first quarter performance, we remain confident that we will further reduce net leverage to our target of below 2.5x by the end of the fiscal year as we enter the seasonally higher free cash flow generation quarters. Flipping to Slide 11. We continue to deepen lean practices to drive benefits across safety, quality, delivery and cost. We have now implemented a lean daily management in 34 DCs as of the end of the first quarter, a sequential increase of 6 facilities in the quarter.

We're actively working to eliminate waste and improve distribution center effectiveness and efficiency, all driven by our strategy of adding value to our customers and suppliers.

As Sandy stated, we continue to focus on building enhanced capabilities including customer stewardship, merchandising, supply chain and technology. This builds on work done over the past few years to better understand the needs of all customers and suppliers, and will be an important part of the content at the next week's Investor Day. Looking at Slide 12. Our performance in Q1 keeps us solidly on track to deliver our full year outlook for fiscal 2026.

To review, our guidance ranges and increases compared to fiscal 2025 include sales of $31.6 billion to $32 billion. This includes the year-over-year loss of sales from our transition out of Allentown which will improve profitability and free cash flow but suppress the growth in consolidated net sales by about 3%. Adjusted EBITDA of $630 million to $700 million, representing a year-over-year increase of about 20% and an average annual growth rate of close to 15% at the midpoint relative to our reported fiscal 2024 results.

This implies about 35 basis points of margin expansion at the midpoint of our outlook. With an adjusted EPS range of $1.50 to $2.30 per share an increase of about $1.20 per share at the midpoint compared to last year. Our outlook for capital spending remains at $250 million reflecting our focus on safety, modernization and continued prioritization of investment for growth. Finally, our free cash flow expectations remains at approximately $300 million.

We will continue to prioritize reducing net debt to improve our net leverage ratio to 2.5x or less by year-end. While it's still early in the year, we remain confident in delivering our plan as we move through the balance of fiscal 2026.

As highlighted on Slide 13, the strength of our customers and a focus on continuing to improve execution across our operations, including the benefit from lean and our network optimization efforts have led to a solid start to fiscal 2026. We are encouraged by our sustained progress on improving free cash flow and de-leveraging our balance sheet with our net leverage ratio decreasing by 1 turn versus this time last year.

We remain committed to our strategy of adding value to our customers and suppliers while making UNFI more effective and efficient as a business partner.

As we suggested on our last call, our goal this fiscal year is to accelerate the momentum, and we are on a path of doing just that. We look forward to sharing more with you at next week's Investor Day. With that, operator, please open the line for questions.