Union Pacific Corporation (UNP) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 8:45 AM EST

Company Participants

Vincenzo Vena - CEO & Director
Eric Gehringer - Executive Vice President of Operations
Jennifer Hamann - Executive VP & CFO
Kenny Rocker - Executive Vice President of Marketing & Sales

Conference Call Participants

Jonathan Chappell - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Andrzej Tomczyk - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Ken Hoexter - BofA Securities, Research Division
David Vernon - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Christian Wetherbee - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Walter Spracklin - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Elliot Alper - TD Cowen, Research Division
Scott Group - Wolfe Research, LLC
Thomas Wadewitz - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brandon Oglenski - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Stephanie Benjamin Moore - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Ariel Rosa - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Megan Makini
Brian Ossenbeck - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Madison Pasterchick - Morgan Stanley, Research Division

Presentation

Unknown Attendee

Thank you for accessing Union Pacific Corporation's 2025 Fourth Quarter Earnings Call held at 8:45 a.m. Eastern Time on January 27, 2026, in Omaha, Nebraska.

This presentation and the accompanying materials include statements that contain estimates, projections or expectations regarding the company's financial results and operations and future economic conditions. These statements are forward-looking statements as defined by the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. The materials accompanying this presentation include more detailed information regarding forward-looking information and these risks and uncertainties.

In addition, please refer to the company's website and SEC filings for additional information about our risk factors.

Operator

Greetings. Welcome to the Union Pacific's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.

At this time, it is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Jim Vena, Chief Executive Officer for Union Pacific. Thank you, Mr. Vena. You may begin.

Vincenzo Vena
CEO & Director

Thank you, Rob. Appreciate it. Let's get going this morning. But maybe let's just take a second before we get into the prepared remarks, and then I'm really looking forward to the questions and answers. I'm sure there won't be anything on mergers. It will be all about how good Eric and the team are running the railroad, but thanks for joining us this morning.

But I do need to call out the entire Union Pacific team. We've had a significant weather event that impacted the vast majority of the United States of America from one end to the other. And we felt that in the Southern region that is -- that has these storms come through, but I'm telling you, it used to take us weeks to recover. And Eric and the team have done a spectacular job. I wouldn't say that we're at 100% this morning recovered. But Eric's promised me by the time I look at the metrics on Thursday morning, we'll be back to normal.

So Eric, listen, you and the team, do you want to just give a quick update on some of the big impacts, what's left to do here in the next, so the customers that might be listening and can understand exactly where we are.

Eric Gehringer
Executive Vice President of Operations

Yes, to your point, Jim, the team has done a heck of a job. And it really is in that Texas and really in the Louisiana, Arkansas area. And really where we are, we are pretty much 70% recovered, and that includes partnering with a lot of our customers who when this weather happens, they have to make adjustments to their operations as well. We welcome that. We work with Kenny's team to be able to do that. And like you said, when we wake up Thursday morning, we should be back.

Vincenzo Vena
CEO & Director

Perfect. So listen, we're at Union Pacific and me specifically and the rest of the team with me. We like to deal with facts, not how people feel. One of my favorite sayings when somebody tells me, I think this. I tell them, tell me what the facts are. And the facts are the northern part of the railroad, which usually gets impacted with real cold weather that did, has recovered really well. The western part of the railroad in L.A., I have to admit, that there wasn't very much of an impact. It was pretty clean, and they're operating like they should. And in that Central East and South part, they've done a spectacular job of recovering, where it would have taken us weeks to get us back to where we are. Nice to see that the short time after a few days.

And that speaks to the facts of who we are and what we do with buffer of resources, making sure we had locomotives in the right place that would help, and all the assets and the people that we need. And I've got to give the employees credit for coming out in weather that was pretty tough.

Now I always try to tell people I've done it before. But yes, that was a long time ago. Right now, the toughest thing I have to do is drive out of my garage and drive into another garage. So it's pretty easy. But I appreciate all the hard work by everybody.

So why don't we get going? So I already said, good morning, and thanks for joining us on the Union Pacific's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Results. I'm joined in Omaha by Chief Financial Officer, Jennifer Hamann; Executive Vice President of Marketing, Kenny Rocker, and of course, Eric, who has already spoken. So nice to have the team with me here this morning.

Let's dig into 2025. Throughout the year, we continue to build on what's possible. Quarter-to-quarter, we challenged ourselves and each other. The result that Union Pacific team delivered are best-ever full year across safety, service, and operating excellence. As we close out the year, it's clear the team is consistently delivering at the highest levels. And I'm confident that's what we'll continue to do.

Now let's discuss the highlights further starting on Slide 4. This morning, Union Pacific reported 2025 full year reported net income of $7.1 billion, up 6% and earnings per share of $11.98 up 8%. 2025 freight revenue, excluding the impact of fuel surcharge grew 3% versus 2024 and set a best-ever full year record. Strong core pricing gains, combined with an additional 113,000 railcars more than offset business mix. Our annual operating expenses after adjusting for merger costs and other one-timers were roughly flat year-over-year, an excellent result against business growth as well as inflationary pressures. We remain disciplined setting the best-ever full year record for workforce productivity as we utilize 3% fewer employees to move 1% more volume.

And we further managed our costs by operating a very efficient network, removing car touches and reducing dwell. We set best-ever records in many areas: freight car velocity, locomotive productivity, terminal dwell, train length, fuel consumption. I'm going to stop there. Eric would like me to have another 10, but that's it. That's enough to name a few. Importantly, we achieved these records, while maintaining a buffer of resources as we safely delivered for our customers.

Our 2025 full year adjusted operating ratio improved 60 basis points to 59.3% versus 2024's results. Reported net income was another best-ever full year record in '25, driven by increased other income and higher operating income from revenue growth and productivity. Other income grew in part from industrial park land sales, demonstrating that we will take advantage of opportunities to monetize assets and maximize value to our shareholders.

Jennifer, how about you dig into the fourth quarter financials, and then Kenny and Eric will quickly walk you through the marketing and operate in details. Then I'll come back for a quick wrap up before we go to Q&A. Jennifer?

Jennifer Hamann
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Jim, and good morning. Let's begin with our fourth quarter income statement on Slide 6, where operating revenue of $6.1 billion decreased 1% versus 2024 as freight revenue of $5.8 billion declined only 1% on 4% lower volume. Breaking down the drivers of freight revenue, the lower quarterly volume reduced freight revenue, 400 basis points. Fuel surcharge revenue of $603 million increased $15 million as higher year-over-year fuel prices added 75 basis points to freight revenue.

Core pricing gains, combined with business mix to drive 275 basis points of improvement to freight revenue. Although still strong, quarterly pricing and mix were impacted by the competitive and global market environment, particularly in agricultural. While we remain focused on selling our valuable service product at the right margins, we have to compete. Fortunately, our strong operating efficiency and continuous drive to improve allow us to compete and still generate strong cash returns.

Fourth quarter mix dynamic was slightly positive, although not as favorable as expected, due to lower volumes in some of our higher average revenue per car or ARC businesses such as forest products, food and refrigerated and energy and specialized markets, and higher volume in some of our lower ARC businesses such as coal and rock. Wrapping up the top line, other revenue declined 2% to $326 million, driven by lower revenue from the transfer of Metra operations.

Switching to expenses, our appendix slides provide some more detail, but let me discuss the key drivers as total operating expense increased 2% to $3.7 billion. Reported compensation and benefits decreased 3%, driven by the favorable comparison to the $40 million crew staffing agreement we had in the fourth quarter of 2024. Our continued focus on operational excellence enabled record fourth quarter workforce productivity with workforce levels 5% lower than 2024. Fourth quarter compensation per employee increased 5% as a result of wage inflation and higher guarantee.

For 2026, we expect our all-in compensation per employee to be up around 4% to 5% as we continue to identify opportunities to offset increasing wage and benefit inflation with process improvements, technology and investments.

Reported purchase services and materials increased 8%, driven by merger-related costs, higher inflation and increased maintenance and repair cost. Fuel expense grew 2%, driven by a 3% increase in fuel prices from $2.41 to $2.49 per gallon, partially offset by improved fuel consumption. Equipment and other rents declined 8%, driven by lower operating equipment leases and improved cycle times that reflect our strong network fluidity.

Finally, other expense increased 22% to $344 million on higher casualty costs and rising property taxes, as well as the comparison to 2024's bad debt adjustment. Against our record fourth quarter 2024, operating income declined 5% to $2.4 billion. Below the line, other income was the best-ever quarter and increased $264 million, driven primarily by industrial park land sales, which Jim mentioned earlier.

Reported net income totaled $1.8 billion and was a fourth quarter record with earnings per share of $3.11. Our adjusted earnings per share totaled $2.86 and adjusted operating ratio came in at 60%.

Turning to shareholder returns and the balance sheet on Slide 7. Full year 2025 cash from operations totaled $9.3 billion, roughly flat to 2024, while our cash conversion declined 10 points as a result of higher cash capital and our significant gain on land sales at year-end.

Cash return to shareholders grew 25% versus 2024 as we rewarded our shareholders by returning $5.9 billion in 2025 through both dividends and share repurchases. Our adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio finished the year at 2.7x as we maintain a strong balance sheet and continue to be A rated by our 3 credit agencies.

Return on invested capital improved 50 basis points to 16.3%. As we've discussed, our goal is to have industry-leading operating ratio and ROIC. And I'm confident that when the dust settles after earnings season, we will remain the leader in 2025.

In 2026, we expect our cash balances to steadily grow as we first prioritize paying off the $1.5 billion of long-term debt that comes due in the first half of the year and then conserve cash in anticipation of the merger closing.

Now I'll turn it over to Kenny, and I'll come back in a little bit to discuss our outlook. Kenny?

Kenny Rocker
Executive Vice President of Marketing & Sales

Thank you, Jennifer, and good morning. Before I dive into the fourth quarter results, I want to acknowledge the team's hustle and drive, which helped deliver a best-ever full year record for freight revenue, excluding fuel.

Now turning to the fourth quarter on Slide 9. Freight revenue was down slightly on a 4% decline in volume. Our strong service product allowed the team to offset that pressure with pricing. With fuel surcharges and business mix, we delivered a 4% increase in average revenue per car. Let's talk about the key drivers for each of these business groups.

Starting with our bulk segment. Revenue for the quarter was up 3% compared to last year on a 3% increase in volume. While business mix held average revenue per car flat. Strength in coal was driven by sustained demand and favorable natural gas pricing. We're seeing smaller wins build momentum and provide incremental volume in a mature market.

In grain, lower domestic demand and reduced soybean exports to China were partially offset by business development wins in Mexico. And as Jennifer mentioned, the competitive and global environment also impacted quarterly pricing and mix. Grain products growth in renewable fuels and associated feedstocks was tempered by uncertainty around the renewable fuel tax credit.

Food and beverage volumes remain pressured with softness in Mexico beer shipments. Fertilizer and sulfur finished the quarter strong, driven by increased phosphate shipments and higher sulfur demand from the mining industry.

Turning to Industrial. Revenue was up 1% for the quarter on a 1% increase in volume. Average revenue per car was flat as strong core pricing gains were offset by business mix. Demand and business wins increased in petrochemicals and construction shipments, partially offset by decreased volume in our forest and petroleum markets.

Premium revenue for the quarter declined 6% on a 10% increase in volume and a 5% increase in average revenue per car, reflecting business mix and higher fuel surcharges. Intermodal volumes were challenged by lower West Coast imports and customer shifts. Despite that, 2025 was the best-ever year for domestic intermodal, which also delivered another record-breaking quarter, driven by exceptional service and business wins. Automotive volumes declined due to reduced OEM production driven by softer consumer demand and ongoing quality holds.

Now let's focus on 2026 and the macro indicators we're watching on Slide 10. Based on S&P Global's January outlook, at the start of the year, the indicators point to a softer environment. That said, it's still early in the year, and these forecasts can move as conditions evolve. We'll watch the data closely, but we'll stay focused on what we can control, delivering strong service, hustling to win new business and partnering with our customers to grow.

Looking ahead on Slide 11. While we've been seeing volatility, we remain optimistic about coal potential with natural gas prices expected to remain favorable in the near term. Grain exports, mostly to Mexico and some to China, coupled with ongoing business development should support growth. In grain products, we expect continued strength supported by aggressive business development and expanding markets for renewable fuels and feedstocks. And as the policy for renewable fuels becomes clearer, we expect that to further support growth.

Moving to industrial. We're planning for a challenging backdrop. Industrial production is forecasted to be flat and housing starts are expected to decline by more than 2%. Our team is laser-focused on business development and leveraging our strong service product to close gaps. We expect our petrochemicals market to remain strong driven by investments we've made in our Gulf Coast franchise and winning with new and existing customers.

Wrapping up with premium. We expect continued softness in international intermodal volumes in the near term as imports stay below last year's level. Later in the year, comparison ease, but the import environment remains fluid. On the domestic side, we see continued opportunity and growth from over-the-road conversions enabled by our strong service product and multiple channels to win. Softening vehicle sales will pressure automotive volumes. That said, the team continues to hustle and recent business development wins will help offset some of that softness.

Looking ahead, we're confident in our ability to compete with a strong business development pipeline, and a service product that continues to differentiate Union Pacific, we're focused on converting opportunities through strong customer relationships, commercial intensity, and consistent execution.

And with that, I'll turn it over to Eric to review our operational performance.

Eric Gehringer
Executive Vice President of Operations

Thank you, Kenny, and good morning. Moving to Slide 13, where in the fourth quarter, we extended our safety performance, delivering meaningful improvement in both personal injury and derailment rates compared to our 3-year rolling average. Importantly, for the full year 2025, we achieved best-ever results in both areas, and we expect to lead the industry in employee safety. These outcomes reinforce our commitment to safety and demonstrate the effectiveness of our training programs and technology investments.

Freight car velocity of 239 miles per day beat last year's record fourth quarter by 9% and set a best-ever quarterly record. This result was driven by record quarterly terminal dwell of 19.8 hours, increased train speed and continued process and technology improvements to remove daily car touches. Truly exceptional work as we build further momentum to operate a safer railroad and drive capacity for future growth.

Our service product tracked ahead of what we sold to our customers as fourth quarter intermodal and manifest service performance both improved to finish at 100%. As a reminder, Service Performance Index will be rebased to our best monthly performance as we continue to raise the bar for success. We will remain agile and maintain our buffer of resources positioning us to respond quickly to demand.

Now let's review our key efficiency metrics on Slide 14. Fourth quarter locomotive productivity improved 4% versus 2024. Additionally, our 2025 full year results set a record, demonstrating the team's focus on further reducing locomotive dwell to maximize asset efficiency. Workforce productivity improved 3% and set a quarterly record for the sixth consecutive quarter. We continue to enhance and automate our operations, while improving the safety of how we work.

Train length in the quarter improved 3% versus 2024, a strong result against the mix headwinds associated with softer international intermodal shipments, which were down roughly 30% year-over-year. All in, 2025 was a best-ever year for train length averaging almost 9,700 feet as we adapted our transportation plan for the business and leverage targeted investments to generate mainline capacity.

With that, let's review our capital outlook for 2026 on Slide 15. Our capital plan is developed through a disciplined multiyear strategy to strengthen our infrastructure and generate strong returns. In 2026, we are targeting a capital spending of roughly $3.3 billion. As we've said before, our first capital dollars will support safe, reliable and productive operations. We are prioritizing our core infrastructure, modernizing our locomotive fleet and acquiring freight cars to support both replacement needs and future growth.

We're also investing in targeted capacity projects that align with our growth initiatives. These investments position us to capture additional volume opportunities and drive meaningful productivity improvements across the network. A few examples include the continuation of our siding construction and extension projects in the Pacific Northwest and along the Sunset Route in the Southwest. We're also making terminal investments for our manifest network in and around Houston and the Gulf Coast region.

On the Intermodal front, we're planning additional investments at Inland Empire and Phoenix to increase capacity and support growth in those markets. Our focus is on aligning the right resources in the right places at the right times, so we can grow with our customers and continue driving efficiencies across the network.

Before I pass it over to Jennifer, I want to express my gratitude to the UP team and their unwavering focus on safety and service. By staying disciplined on the fundamentals of railroading, we expect our team to continue this momentum in 2026 and beyond.

So with that, I'll turn it back over to Jennifer to review our initial financial outlook for the year.

Jennifer Hamann
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Eric. Turning to Slide 17. Before I give our thoughts on 2026, let me just summarize what we achieved in 2025. The strong results we've reported today are on target with what we laid out last January. The path to achieving the results, however, was actually quite different.

My point in highlighting that is pretty simple. We are executing our strategy of safety, service and operational excellence, leading to growth at a very high level. That level of execution makes us more nimble as a company and enables us to both win in the competitive freight transportation market as well as to take advantage of spot market opportunities, whether that be higher-than-expected coal demand, domestic intermodal moves or opportunistic real estate sales. The entire Union Pacific team is collectively driving for excellence, and that's producing best-in-class industry returns.

As we apply that mindset to 2026, our current plans do not anticipate a significant economic upswing. We are, however, confident in our operational capabilities as our network is running better than ever. Our service product creates value for customers, and we are committed to outperforming the markets through our business development efforts.

It's also important to note that since we laid out our 3-year targets in September of 2024, several things have changed. Notably, S&P Global's 2026 economic estimates in key areas such as industrial production, housing starts and auto sales have deteriorated. In addition, rail inflation is ticking up again, we expect slightly over 4% inflation in 2026. Our commitment to yielding price dollars that exceed inflation dollars has not changed, but price may not be a driver of our improving margins in 2026. And of course, in September 2024, we did not anticipate the impact of merger costs and pausing our share repurchases.

Despite this different backdrop, we remain committed to attaining our 3-year CAGR of high single to low double-digit EPS growth through 2027. Specific to 2026, our earnings outlook is in the mid-single-digit range as we continue to face volume and cost headwinds. As 2025 demonstrated, the year ahead will likely present some ups and downs, but I am confident that we can adapt and drive financial gains. We are planning $3.3 billion for 2026 capital improvements, and we will continue to deliver value to our shareholders with consistent annual dividend increases.

Importantly, we fully expect to improve our operating ratio versus 2025 and remain the industry leader in operating ratio and return on invested capital. The team's accomplishments in 2025 demonstrate the capabilities of our great franchise, and we look forward to making further improvements in 2026 as a stand-alone company and in 2027 when we merge with the Norfolk Southern. It is truly a great time to be at Union Pacific.

And with that, I'll turn it back to Jim to wrap things up.

Vincenzo Vena
CEO & Director

Thank you, Jennifer. Turning now to Slide 19. Before we get to your questions, I'd like to summarize what you've heard.

First, Jennifer reviewed the fourth quarter financials. The carloads declined 4% in the quarter, driven by tough year-over-year international intermodal comparisons. We had strong core pricing gains and continue to drive productivity throughout our network.

Kenny gave an overview of fourth quarter volumes and laid out initial thoughts for 2026. We are focused on pricing to the value we provide and competing in the marketplace. It's clear our service execution over the last 2 years plus is helping us win with our customers. We see opportunities in several areas, including chemicals and domestic intermodal, to name a few, to leverage our diverse franchise to further grow our business.

Eric reviewed our record safety, service and operational results. From a safety perspective, we made strong improvements and expect that we will end the year as the industry leader in employee safety. On the service front, we have shown our customers what consistent, reliable service looks like and how it drives value through the supply chain. On operational excellence, we more than met the challenges as we set several quarterly and full year fluidity dwell and productivity records, and the team is ready to drive further improvements in 2026.

Lastly, Jennifer discussed our outlook for the upcoming year. Similar to 2025, we are focused on building on our safety performance, winning new business and controlling our costs, all to generate improved financials. Our diverse franchise brings us challenges and opportunities every day, and our job is to maximize what's possible. As we continue to successfully execute on our strategy, we will look to remain the industry leader that keeps raising the bar as we drive value for our shareholders.

Before we open it up for questions, I'd like to make just a couple of comments on the merger. Job one for our team in 2026 is continuing to improve and run a great railroad. I like where we are, I like what we have planned, and I love the way we've been able to increase productivity, and we've been able to adjust depending on where the business is and also what the impact of input costs are.

Job two is working through the regulatory process to merge with the Norfolk Southern. I'll be honest, myself, and we are disappointed that the STB determined we needed to provide more information after providing close to 7,000 pages. And working with them and listening to them if they needed more information. But this procedural step that we've seen in previous acquisitions, which were ultimately approved.

Let's be clear. This does not reflect the value of our combined railroad will provide America and our customers. We are confident that we'll demonstrate our merger enhances competition is in the best interest of the public. Our combined railroad will move goods faster, while removing millions of trucks off the congested highways in several large cities, and customers will benefit from faster, more reliable service that unlocks new markets.

The STB's request is focused on three areas requiring clarification. Our response will take a few weeks to prepare and then we will refile our application as soon as possible. We view this as a short-term blip and do not expect a significant change to the time line as we are still targeting closing in the first half of 2027.

We are following the process and doing our part to move forward with transparency and speed. We are delivering at the highest levels. So fundamentally, I like where we are and aligned on what it takes to win, driving safety, service and operational improvements to support growth as we work towards combining with Norfolk Southern.

So with that, Rob, we're ready to take questions if there's any.

