United Parcel Service, Inc. (UPS) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 8:30 AM EDT

Company Participants

PJ Guido - Investor Relations Officer
Carol Tomé - CEO & Director
Brian Dykes - Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President
Kathleen Gutmann - Executive VP and President of International, Healthcare & Supply Chain Solutions

Conference Call Participants

Christian Wetherbee - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
David Vernon - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Thomas Wadewitz - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Ariel Rosa - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Jonathan Chappell - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Scott Group - Wolfe Research, LLC
Jordan Alliger - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
J. Bruce Chan - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Ken Hoexter - BofA Securities, Research Division
Brian Ossenbeck - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Ravi Shanker - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Stephanie Benjamin Moore - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Conor Cunningham - Melius Research LLC

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Matthew, and I'll be your facilitator today. I'd like to welcome everyone to the UPS Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mr. PJ Guido, Investor Relations Officer. Sir, the floor is yours.

PJ Guido
Investor Relations Officer

Good morning, and welcome to the UPS Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. Joining me today are Carol Tome, our CEO; Brian Dykes, our CFO; and a few additional members of our executive leadership team. Before we begin, I want to remind you that some of the comments we'll make today are forward-looking statements and address our expectations for the future performance or operating results of our company.

These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which are described in our 2024 Form 10-K and other reports we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports, when filed, are available on the UPS Investor Relations website and from the SEC. Unless stated otherwise, our discussion refers to adjusted results.

For the third quarter of 2025, GAAP results include a net charge of $164 million or $0.19 per diluted share, comprised of after-tax transformation strategy costs of $250 million, which were partially offset by an $86 million benefit from the reversal of an income tax valuation allowance. A reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted amounts to GAAP financial results is available in today's webcast materials.

These materials are also available on the UPS Investor Relations website. Following our prepared remarks, we will take questions from those joining us via the teleconference. [Operator Instructions].

And now I'll turn the call over to Carol.

Carol Tomé
CEO & Director

Thank you, PJ, and good morning. To start, I want to extend my sincere gratitude to all UPSers for their dedication and hard work. The third quarter brought a wave of tariff changes, some expected others unforeseen, and our team navigated these complexities with exceptional skills and resilience. At the same time, we continued advancing our network reconfiguration, a critical step in shaping the future of our U.S. business. Amid this significant transformation, I remain deeply impressed by the determination of UPSers and their steadfast commitment to serving our customers and building a stronger, more agile UPS.

Turning to our results. In the third quarter, consolidated revenue was $21.4 billion. Consolidated operating profit was $2.1 billion and consolidated operating margin was 10%. The cash flow pressures we saw in the second quarter eased during the third quarter. As a result, our year-to-date free cash flow reached $2.7 billion. In the third quarter, our focus on revenue quality continued. And as expected, our U.S. average daily volume, or ADV, declined from last year.

The largest drivers of the U.S. volume decline were the planned glide-down of Amazon volume and a targeted reduction in lower-yielding e-commerce volume. Our focus on revenue quality yielded solid results as U.S. revenue per piece grew by 9.8% in the third quarter. By coupling solid revenue per piece growth with outstanding expense control, we were able to grow our U.S. operating margin by 10 basis points to what we reported last year on an ADV decline of $2.3 million or 12.3%.

In our international business, total ADV grew 4.8%. Our priority is to our customers. And during the quarter, we ran our international network with agility, rerouting capacity to where our customers needed it. Looking at export ADV, it increased 5.9%, marking the fifth quarter in a row of growth. But due to the changes in trade policy, export volume fell in our higher-margin lanes and grew in our lower-margin lanes. This volume mix change pressured our international operating margin and also pressured our forwarding business.

On a positive note, we continue to see strength in health care with strong revenue growth in the third quarter year-over-year, driven by our portfolio of health care logistics solutions. As Brian will provide more details on our financial performance, let me provide some operational updates. In recent years, the spotlight on international commerce and the intricacies of supply chains has intensified. And in 2025, we're witnessing the most profound shift in trade policy in a century. At UPS, this is our domain.

Every day, we connect businesses and customers across more than 200 countries and territories, ensuring goods move seamlessly across borders. That includes navigating the complexities of customs brokerage, where we're one of the world's largest customs brokers, managing millions of customs entries annually. Our success is powered by deep expertise, exceptional talent and cutting-edge technology. With our next-gen brokerage capabilities, we harness AI to digitally process over 90% of our cross-border transactions, delivering speed, accuracy, and reliability at a global scale.

Following the elimination of the de minimis exemption for U.S. imports, UPS experienced a tenfold surge in daily customs entries. We responded swiftly, upgrading our shipping systems to capture the expanded data requirements mandated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection. To manage the increased volume and complexity, we enhanced our customs brokerage capabilities by integrating Agentic AI. This advanced technology streamlined formal entry processes.

At UPS, we don't just move goods. We remove friction. By absorbing regulatory complexity, we help our customers minimize disruptions and keep global commerce flowing. And due to the investments we've made in our brokerage business, we can absorb this complexity without adding cost that isn't offset by revenue. As you know, we have a goal to become the #1 complex health care logistics provider in the world. To that end, we are making great progress towards our acquisition of Canadian-based Andlauer Healthcare Group.

The addition of Andlauer's capabilities will further strengthen our solutions in global health care logistics, particularly in North America. We expect to close this transaction in early November. Now touching on DAP, our digital access program. We have more than 8 million SMBs on DAP. And in the first 9 months of the year, we generated over $2.8 billion in global DAP revenue, an increase of 20% year-over-year. DAP continues to be an important SMB growth engine.

And for the full year, we expect to deliver over $3.5 billion in global DAP revenue. Before we move on, let me provide updates on our Amazon glide-down efforts and our Ground Saver product. Our Amazon glide-down efforts are proceeding as planned. As expected, in the third quarter, we experienced a stepped-up volume decline with Amazon. Versus last year, Amazon's total volume decline in the third quarter was 21.2% compared to 13% for the first half of the year.

In tandem with this change, we are continuing to reconfigure our U.S. network. We closed an additional 19 buildings, bringing our total so far this year to 93 buildings. Further during the quarter, we completed a successful voluntary retirement program for many long-term drivers who welcome the opportunity to retire from UPS after decades of dedicated service. In total, our network reconfiguration and cost-out efforts are on schedule and the profit improvement we expect to see from the Amazon glide-down initiative is on plan.

In a few minutes, Brian will provide more details about our progress here. Moving to Ground Saver. In the third quarter, our Ground Saver average daily volume declined 32.7% year-over-year due primarily to the actions we've taken with Amazon and to trim lower-yielding e-commerce volume. We recently reached a preliminary understanding on revenue and rates with the United States Postal Service to support last-mile delivery for our Ground Saver product.

There's still more work to do, but we are confident we will come to an agreement that ensures our service levels will remain best-in-class, which brings me to peak. As we've discussed, our top 100 customers drive about 80% of our peak surge each year, and we expect that to be the case again this year. Early forecasts from these customers suggest they are planning for a good peak that will result in a considerable surge in volume from our current volume levels. But remember that given the Amazon glide-down plan, we expect total peak average daily volume in the U.S. to be down year-over-year. Operationally, we're poised to deliver a strong peak season driven by several key factors.

First, thanks to strategic enhancements made through our Network of the Future initiative, we're operating more efficiently than ever. These changes will allow us to reduce reliance on seasonal hires and significantly cut back on leased trailers, vehicles and aircraft compared to previous years. Much of this efficiency is powered by automation. Over the past year, we've deployed new automated systems in 35 facilities.

In the fourth quarter, we anticipate 66% of our volume will move through automated processes, up from 63% during the same period last year. Second, as we approach the peak shipping window, we'll continue to leverage our proven technologies and scale the network where needed. All while maintaining a sharp focus on service quality. These advancements position us to run the most efficient peak in our history. We've set the standard for holiday shipping, 7 consecutive years of industry-leading service, and we're confident that our operational strategy and commitment to excellence will make it 8.

With the uncertainty around tariffs now somewhat resolved and clear peak forecast from our largest customers, we're in a stronger position to offer guidance than we were at the end of the second quarter. As I wrap up, let me share our financial expectations for the fourth quarter. We anticipate consolidated revenue of approximately $24 billion and consolidated operating margin of approximately 11% to 11.5%. Brian will walk you through the details of our fourth quarter outlook shortly. Amid a rapidly evolving global landscape, UPS is executing the most significant strategic shift in our company's history.

We're focused on winning where it matters most, capturing high-value parts of the market and onboarding customers with increasingly complex logistics needs. Our company is rock solid strong with more than sufficient liquidity to deliver upon our transformation and return capital to shareowners. The changes we're implementing are designed to deliver long-term value for all stakeholders.

So with that, thank you for listening. And now I'll turn the call over to Brian.

Brian Dykes
Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President

Thank you, Carol, and good morning, everyone. This morning, I'll cover three areas, starting with our third quarter results. Next, I'll discuss progress with the Amazon volume glide-down and our network reconfiguration and cost-out efforts. Then I'll close with our expectations for the fourth quarter and capital allocation for the full year.

Moving to our results. Starting with our consolidated performance. In the third quarter, revenue was $21.4 billion and operating profit was $2.1 billion. Consolidated operating margin was 10%. Diluted earnings per share were $1.74. $0.30 of EPS came from a sale-leaseback transaction involving 5 properties completed in the third quarter, which resulted in a $330 million pre-tax gain on sale. This transaction was part of a broader strategy aimed at freeing up capital for reinvestment as we reconfigure our network. The leases are structured to maintain operational continuity for our business. And as a result, we have not adjusted this gain on sale in our non-GAAP presentation.

Now moving to our segment performance, starting with U.S. Domestic. In the third quarter, we continued to improve the mix of volume in our network and our disciplined approach to revenue quality meaningfully offset the impact lower volume had on revenue. Additionally, the team did an excellent job managing expense throughout the quarter, resulting in an improvement in U.S. domestic operating margin.

For the quarter, total U.S. average daily volume was down 12.3%, primarily due to the glide-down of Amazon volume and our focus on improving revenue quality. Total air average daily volume was down 13.9%, mainly due to Amazon. Health care and high-tech customers both showed growth in air average daily volume in the third quarter, which was the third consecutive quarter of positive momentum from these key industries.

Ground average daily volume was down 12% year-over-year. Within Ground, Ground Saver ADV declined 32.7% due primarily to the actions we've taken with Amazon and to trim lower-yielding e-commerce volume. As a result, our more premium ground commercial and residential services made up over 84% of our total ground average daily volume in the third quarter. That's the highest percentage we've seen in more than 5 years.

Now moving to customer mix. SMB average daily volume was down 2.2% versus last year. However, we continue to see bright spots in SMB health care and automotive as well as growth from DAP, our digital access program. In the third quarter, SMBs made up 32.8% of total U.S. volume, which is about a 340 basis point improvement compared to last year.

In the third quarter, B2B average daily volume finished down 4.8% compared to last year due to softness in retail and manufacturing activity. B2B represented 45.2% of our U.S. volume, which was a 350 basis point improvement versus last year. B2C average daily volume was down 17.6% year-over-year. Moving to revenue. For the third quarter, U.S. Domestic generated revenue of $14.2 billion, which was down just 2.6% year-over-year against an ADV decline of 12.3%.

Our revenue performance reflects strong growth in revenue per piece and air cargo. In the third quarter, revenue per piece increased 9.8% year-over-year, which was the strongest revenue per piece growth rate we've seen in 3 years. Breaking down the components of the 9.8% revenue per piece improvement, base rates and package characteristics increased the revenue per piece growth rate by 350 basis points. Customer and product mix improvements increased the revenue per piece growth rate by 400 basis points. The remaining 230 basis point increase was from fuel.

Turning to costs. In the third quarter, total expense in U.S. domestic was down 2.7%. The decline in total expense was primarily driven by our actions to reduce hours and operational positions with volume. Looking at cost per piece, we were up against a tough comparison from last year. This comparison, together with the costs associated with delivering Ground Saver volume and the contractual union wage increase that went into effect on August 1, resulted in a cost per piece increase of 10.4%. The U.S. Domestic segment delivered $905 million in operating profit and operating margin was 6.4%.

Moving to our International segment. Through ongoing shifts in trade patterns spurred by changes in U.S. trade policy, we are continuing to operate our global network with agility to serve our customers. As a result, in the third quarter, International delivered its fourth consecutive quarter of growth in average daily volume and revenue. In the third quarter, total international ADV increased 4.8%, led by Europe and the Americas regions.

International domestic average daily volume increased 3.6% compared to last year, led by Canada. On the export side, average daily volume increased 5.9% year-over-year, driven by the agility of our network to adjust to changing trade lanes and led by strength between European countries. As the third quarter played out, we saw a decline in U.S. imports, led by an ADV decline on the China to U.S. Lane of 27.1%.

Turning to revenue. In the third quarter, international revenue was $4.7 billion, up 5.9% from last year. Operating profit in the international segment was $691 million, down $101 million year-over-year, reflecting pressures from trade lane shifts, product trade down and lower demand-related surcharges. International operating margin in the third quarter was 14.8%.

Moving to Supply Chain Solutions. In the third quarter, revenue was $2.5 billion, lower than last year by $715 million, of which $465 million was due to our divestiture of Coyote in the third quarter of 2024. Within Supply Chain Solutions, demand softness in air and ocean forwarding resulted in lower market rates, which drove a decline in revenue year-over-year.

Logistics revenue was down year-over-year, driven by a decline in Mail Innovations. This was partially offset by revenue growth in healthcare logistics. And UPS Digital, which includes Roadie and Happy Returns, grew revenue by 9.5% year-over-year. In the third quarter, Supply Chain Solutions generated operating profit of $536 million. Operating margin was 21.3%. Our results in Supply Chain Solutions this quarter include the impact of the sale-leaseback transaction, which generated the $330 million one-time gain that I mentioned earlier.

Turning to cash and shareowner returns. Year-to-date, we generated $5.1 billion in cash from operations and free cash flow of $2.7 billion. We finished the quarter with strong liquidity and no outstanding commercial paper. And so far this year, UPS has paid $4 billion in dividends.

Now let me provide an update on our cost out and network reconfiguration efforts. In conjunction with our actions to significantly reduce the amount of Amazon volume in our network, we are executing the largest network reconfiguration in our history and will remove approximately $3.5 billion in related costs this year. We've made a lot of progress since our last earnings call. Let me walk you through the details. Total Amazon volume was down 21.2% compared to the third quarter of last year. We achieved our reduction target in the portions of the Amazon volume we are exiting, and we grew the portions of Amazon volume that we are continuing to serve.

Now let's look at the savings we've generated so far this year. As a reminder, we are tracking our savings within 3 cost buckets. They are variable costs, which primarily captures operational hours, semi-variable costs, which reflects operational positions and fixed costs, which includes closing buildings and reducing expense from support functions through our efficiency reimagined initiative. Looking at variable costs. Total operational hours continue to move down with volume. So far this year, we are down more than 16 million hours, and we are on track to reach our reduction target of approximately 25 million hours for the year.

Moving to semi-variable costs. Attrition and operational positions accelerated each month during the quarter, and we finished down nearly 34,000 positions year-over-year, which includes a reduction from our driver voluntary separation program. Nearly 1/3 of the reductions occurred in September. In our fixed cost bucket, year-to-date, we have completed the closure of 195 operations, including closing 93 buildings. As we are closing buildings, we are also investing through our Network of the Future efforts.

And as Carol mentioned, we've deployed additional automation in 35 facilities. And while we expect to be busy processing volume during peak, we also plan to deploy automation projects in 7 additional buildings in December. Lastly, savings from our efficiency reimagined initiatives continued to accelerate in the third quarter. Pulling it all together, we are making meaningful progress executing our strategy. So far this year, we've reduced expense by $2.2 billion, and we're on track to achieve our 2025 expense reduction target of approximately $3.5 billion.

Now moving to our outlook. At the consolidated level, we expect fourth quarter revenue of approximately $24 billion and an operating margin of approximately 11% to 11.5%. Looking at the segments in the fourth quarter. Starting with U.S. Domestic, we expect revenue to be around $16.2 billion in the fourth quarter, driven by the continued volume reduction with Amazon and strong revenue per piece growth. And we expect an operating margin of approximately 9.5% to 10%.

In terms of peak, in the U.S., we expect heavier volume earlier in the peak period, and we have 1 additional delivery day compared to last year, which gives us more flexibility. The network reconfiguration and additional automation we deployed through Network of the Future set us up to deliver a more efficient peak and another year of industry-leading service for our customers. In short, we're ready for peak.

Turning to International. We expect the dynamic environment we've experienced throughout the year will continue. With this in mind, we expect fourth quarter revenue to be approximately $5 billion, and we expect an operating margin of between 17% and 18%. In Supply Chain Solutions, we expect revenue in the fourth quarter of around $2.7 billion and an operating margin of approximately 9%.

Looking at capital allocation for the full year, we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $3.5 billion. We are planning to pay out around $5.5 billion in dividends, subject to Board approval, and we have completed the targeted share repurchase of about $1 billion of our shares. Lastly, we expect the tax rate to be approximately 23.75% for the full year 2025.

Before I close, let me comment on our financial condition. UPS is rock solid strong, and we have plenty of liquidity to continue executing our strategy and return value to our shareowners. And following the completion of our acquisition of Andlauer, we expect to end the year with around $5 billion in cash. So with that, operator, please open the lines for questions.