Urban Outfitters, Inc. (URBN) Q3 2026 Earnings Call November 25, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Oona McCullough - Executive Director of Investor Relations
Richard Hayne - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Francis Conforti - COO & Co-President
Tricia Smith - Global Chief Executive Officer of Anthropologie Group
Melanie Marein-Efron - Chief Financial Officer
David Hayne - Chief Technology Officer & President of Nuuly
Shea Jensen - President of Urban Outfitters Brand of North America
Sheila Harrington - Global CEO Urban Outfitters Group & CEO of Free People Group

Conference Call Participants

Lorraine Maikis - BofA Securities, Research Division
Adrienne Yih-Tennant - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Paul Lejuez - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Mark Altschwager - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Alexandra Straton - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Dana Telsey - Telsey Advisory Group LLC
Marni Shapiro - The Retail Tracker
Janet Kloppenburg - JJK Research Associates, Inc.
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Urban Outfitters, Inc. Third Quarter Fiscal '26 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]

I'd now like to turn the conference over to Oona McCullough, Executive Director, Investor Relations. Ma'am, you may begin.

Oona McCullough
Executive Director of Investor Relations

Good afternoon, and welcome to the URBN Third Quarter Fiscal 2026 Conference Call. Earlier this afternoon, the company issued a press release outlining the financial and operating results for the 3- and 9-month period ending October 31, 2025. The following discussions may include forward-looking statements. Please note that actual results may differ materially from those statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results is contained in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For a more detailed commentary on our quarterly performance and the text of today's conference call, please refer to our Investor Relations website at www.urbn.com.

I will now turn the call over to Dick.

Richard Hayne
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thanks, Oona, and good afternoon, everyone. URBN team has delivered another outstanding quarter. Total revenues grew by 12% and net income increased by 13%, both new third quarter records. We are especially pleased to report that all brands produced positive comps across all geographies this quarter. This includes the powerful double-digit comps the Urban brand generated in both North America and Europe and the exceptional growth in subscribers and revenue from the Nuuly brand. The agenda for today's call includes comments from Frank Conforti, our Co-President and COO, who will elaborate on Q3 performance by brand and business segment. After Frank, Tricia Smith, CEO of the Anthropologie Group, will speak to the performance of that brand and their newly launched Maeve concept. Melanie Marein-Efron, our CFO, will then walk you through our outlook for the fourth quarter, and I'll wrap things up with a few closing thoughts before we open the call for your questions.

Frank, the floor is all yours.

Francis Conforti
COO & Co-President

Thank you, Dick, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I'm excited to share our company's third quarter record results compared to last year, and then I will dive into some detailed notes by brand. Overall, our teams delivered another outstanding quarter exceeding our plans and setting new sales and profit records. Total URBN sales grew by over 12%, reaching a Q3 record of $1.5 billion. All our retail segment brands delivered positive Retail segment comps, while 4 of our 5 brands posted record third quarter sales and Nuuly continued its impressive double-digit revenue growth. Our total URBN sales growth was partly driven by an 8% increase in the Retail segment comp with digital comps slightly exceeding store comps. Nuuly delivered strong 49% revenue growth, driven primarily by an increase of 118,000 average active subscribers compared to the prior year. Additionally, the Wholesale segment delivered an 8% increase in revenue, driven by growth in the specialty store accounts, which was largely fueled by healthy increases in FP Movement.

Next, I will turn your attention to gross profit. URBN saw a 13% increase in gross profit dollars, reaching a record $563 million. The gross profit rate improved nicely by 31 basis points, rising to 36.8%. Please note that this includes a $2 million impairment charge in the current quarter, which is worth 13 basis points. The improvement in gross margin was primarily driven by lower markdowns at the Urban Outfitters and Free People brands as well as occupancy leverage driven by strong sales growth across all our brands. These gains more than offset lower initial product margins at all our brands due to increased tariffs versus the prior year.

In the quarter, SG&A increased by 14%, deleveraging by 32 basis points. The growth in SG&A dollars was primarily driven by increased marketing spend, which fueled sales and customer growth for all brands. The marketing efforts drove increases in traffic and transactions both in stores and online for total URBN Retail segment, while Nuuly's campaigns resulted in healthy double-digit growth in average active subscribers. Overall, total URBN operating income rose by over 12% compared to last year, reaching $144 million, while the operating profit rate was consistent with the prior year. Net income saw a 13% increase to a new Q3 record of $116 million or $1.28 per diluted share.

Now moving to brand performance, starting with the Free People brand. The team delivered a 9% increase in total revenue. Their sales growth was driven by a 9% increase in Retail segment sales including a 4% Retail segment comp, significant non-comp sales growth and an 8% increase in Wholesale segment revenues. The Retail segment comp was driven by positive comps in both the store and digital channels across all geographies with outperformance in accessory product sales. Non-comp sales grew by over 200%, driven by new Free People and Free People Movement store openings over the past 12 months. The brand is planning to open 43 new stores for the year, including 18 Free People and 25 FP Movement stores. The brand is also encouraged by the strong results in Europe. While European operations are small relative to the total brand, new store openings continue to perform well, and the region drove a double-digit Retail segment comp in the quarter building on double-digit Retail segment comps last year. I know Sheila and team are excited to capture more of European market potential in the future.

Within the Free People brand, the FP Movement business delivered strong total growth of 18%, driven by a 4% Retail segment comp, strong Wholesale segment sales growth of 29% and robust non-comp growth driven by new store openings. Continued strength in performance-related products is driving healthy new customer acquisition growth. The FP Movement brand saw increases in new reactivated and retained customers during the quarter. Based on our current plans, we believe the Free People Retail segment could deliver a low- to mid-single-digit positive comp in Q4.

Free People Wholesale revenues increased by 8% during the quarter, driven by sales gains in all geographies, while specialty store accounts led the way versus other accounts. As noted on our last call, as we move through the back half of the year, the Wholesale segment faces more difficult year-on-year comparisons versus the prior year. Based on our current plans, we believe the wholesale segment could deliver mid-single-digit comps in the fourth quarter.

Now let's move on to the Urban Outfitters brand. Urban Outfitters recorded a strong 13% global Retail segment comp for the third quarter. Congratulations to the team on delivering the first double-digit comp in some time. UO North America recorded a 10% Retail segment comp and UO Europe an exceptional 17% Retail segment comp. The total global comp was driven by strong store and digital comps with positive traffic in both channels and positive conversion in stores. In North America, the UO team continued their focus on their customer and delivered a solid comp in both channels for the quarter, building on a strong start to the back-to-school season in Q2. In the third quarter, the business grew nicely across all major categories, anchored in strong regular price sales, new customer growth and continued success in focused growth categories.

Within women's, the denim business continued to be strong, complemented by pants, lounge, sweaters and accessories. The brand is also encouraged by the progress in the men's apparel category, which delivered double-digit regular price comps in the month of October. In North America, from a marketing perspective, the team is focused on meeting customers in the moments and places that matter most, whether that is across social channels, digitally, in our stores or by hosting culturally relevant events. In the third quarter, the brand celebrated back to campus by hosting gameday events at college campuses across the country, introducing and welcoming more customers into the brand. The brand also celebrated partnerships with some of Gen Z's most loved brands through On Rotation, a 360-degree brand spotlight, showcasing discovery, product engagement and curated assortment. These engaging brand marketing events have been successful, driving an increase in unaided awareness and new customer growth.

In Europe, the Urban Outfitters brand delivered an outstanding 17% Retail segment comp driven by double-digit comp increases in both the store and digital channels. During the quarter, the business achieved positive double-digit comps across all major product categories. With these exceptional results, it is clear the European team is winning market share through amazing product execution and compelling marketing events and strategies.

Moving back to the Urban Outfitters brand globally. We are proud to note that the brand delivered low single-digit operating profit margin in the third quarter. This significant improvement was driven by a remarkable year-on-year profit increase in Europe, followed by a meaningful reduction in operating loss in North America. Based on our current plans, we believe the global Urban Outfitters brand could deliver a high single-digit positive Retail segment comp for the fourth quarter.

Now turning to the Nuuly brand, which delivered another exceptional quarter. Total Q3 revenue grew by 49%. The impressive growth was primarily driven by an increase of over 40% in average active subscribers reaching just shy of 400,000 average active sales versus the prior comparable quarter. Nuuly's growth added 3.5 percentage points of revenue growth to total URBN sales. Our primary focus remains on scaling the Nuuly business and building brand awareness, which we are doing through investments in logistics and strategic marketing. We are pleased to report that our planned logistics expansion in Kansas City, Missouri, including increased storage capacity and the implementation of new sortation automation remains on track. Our latest marketing campaign was successful in driving new customers and continues the positive momentum of the brand.

Overall, Nuuly's continued strong performance highlights the large growing opportunity for apparel rental in the U.S., and we believe we are making the appropriate investments to enable Nuuly to continue winning market share. Based on our current plans, we believe Nuuly could deliver healthy double-digit revenue growth in the fourth quarter.

Now moving on to tariffs. The macro landscape remains consistent with what we discussed on our last call. We estimate that tariffs negatively impacted our third quarter gross margin rate by approximately 60 basis points, and we currently believe they will have an impact of approximately 75 basis points in the fourth quarter. Despite these headwinds, we still believe we can achieve approximately 100 basis points of gross margin improvement for the full fiscal year 2026. Our teams continue to work diligently on tariff mitigation efforts, including negotiating vendor terms, modifying our countries of origin, adjusting transportation modes and strategically managing pricing. I want to emphasize that this plan reflects our current knowledge, and there is still a lot of uncertainty into this environment. This uncertainty in addition to our ongoing mitigation efforts, makes it challenging to predict the impact of tariffs beyond the fourth quarter.

In summary, it was an exceptional quarter. All brands delivered positive Retail segment sales comps, Wholesale produced healthy revenue gains and the subscription segment drove double-digit revenue growth. We believe we are on track to deliver record sales and operating profit for the year, including approximately 100 basis points of gross and operating profit margin improvement despite tariff headwinds. We could not be prouder of the teams and their amazing execution.

On that note, I will now turn the call over to Tricia Smith, Global CEO of the Anthropologie Group.

Tricia Smith
Global Chief Executive Officer of Anthropologie Group

Thank you, Frank, and good afternoon, everyone. In the third quarter, the Anthropologie Group delivered an 8% Retail segment comparable sales increase, driving 8% growth in total brand revenue. This achievement marks the 19th consecutive quarter of positive comparable sales for the Anthropologie Group. Importantly, we were able to maintain strong double-digit profit rates through improved gross profit margins despite ongoing tariff headwinds. The Retail segment's comparable sales growth was robust, driven by strong comps in both digital and stores across all regions. Category strength remained consistent across apparel, accessories and weddings complemented by an acceleration in sales trends within the home category.

Turning specifically to apparel. Our strength continues to be driven by the brand's multiyear focus on modernizing the assortment and elevating our own brands. These offerings remain our customers' most coveted selections and continue to drive substantial growth. This success is tangible. Own brand penetration achieved a historical high, increasing by over 100 basis points versus last year. We're strategically investing in these unique brands, including Maeve, Celandine, LyreBird and Pilcro, which are supported by a strong design team and a distinctive creative point of view. We believe this customer affinity for our own brands positions them for continued outsized growth opportunities.

Highlighting the power of our own brands, this quarter saw the launch of Maeve as a stand-alone brand, transitioning it from a beloved in-house label to a dedicated boutique concept. Our first Maeve boutique opened in Raleigh, North Carolina, and the results have exceeded our expectations with a high double-digit beat of our forecast. This launch has proven accretive to our business in the Raleigh-Durham area, driving increases in total store sales across the region, inclusive of existing Anthropologie stores. Furthermore, digital demand for both Maeve and Anthropologie in the trade area has outpaced brand-wide demand growth since the store opening. Building on this success, our next Maeve boutique is scheduled to open at the end of fiscal Q4 in Atlanta's Buckhead Village district with an additional location to be announced in the first quarter of fiscal 2027.

Moving now to the Home business, where we saw an acceleration in sales trends during the quarter. Anthropologie Home achieved high single-digit comparable sales, which was in line with total brand comparable sales, driven largely by the strength of our full-price business. Growth was concentrated in home accessories and textiles and notably, regular price furniture sales turned positive during the quarter. Home accessories, a key point of entry for new customers, delivered double-digit comps and double-digit new customer growth. We're excited about the current trajectory and growth potential of our home business. Our brand-wide growth continues to be fueled by strong positive comparable sales across both digital and retail channels.

In our digital channel, we drove double-digit session growth while holding conversion flat. We are continuously investing in our customer digital experience to reduce friction in the online purchase process and drive conversion. In our stores, the focus on service and experience is yielding results. Our in-store styling services grew double digits this quarter and the high-touch appointment-driven Anthro Weddings business significantly outpaced total brand comp. These strong channel performances validate our strategic investments in both our physical store footprint and our digital capabilities.

Building on the success in stores, we're executing a robust plan for new Anthropologie stores in addition to the Maeve boutique launches. Year-to-date, in FY '26, we have opened 8 new stores in North America and plan to open an additional 3 before the end of the fiscal year. Internationally, we also have 3 new stores opening in the U.K. with Liverpool and Glasgow opening earlier this month and Manchester opening later this week. Importantly, our new Anthropologie stores are not only exceeding our expectations, but are also driving outsized digital demand in their local markets. By the end of fiscal '26, we will have 250 Anthropologie Group stores globally.

Underpinning our growth strategy is exceptional marketing that drives customer acquisition and retention. Our messaging this quarter was anchored by 2 high-impact campaigns. Our Maeve launch campaign, More You, More Maeve, which generated over 1 billion impressions and our Anthro Always Fall campaign, a cinematic cross-category story. This approach successfully balances data-led discipline with emotionally resonant storytelling that speaks to new and existing customers. As a result, our total customer count grew high single digits this quarter, and over 30% of new customers have returned to make a purchase with our own brands driving the majority of this new customer growth.

Looking ahead, we're expecting mid-single-digit comps for Q4. We are committed to our strategy and focused on our North Star of product modernization customer growth and leveraging creative as we enhance our selling environments with exceptional experiences for our customers. I would like to take this moment to thank our incredible teams and global partners. The thoughtful customer obsessed way in which you work continues to delight our customers and supports the growth of our business.

With that, I will now hand the call over to Mel.

Melanie Marein-Efron
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Tricia, and good afternoon, everyone. Let me walk you through how we're thinking about our fourth quarter financial performance. Based in part on our start of the quarter, we are planning for total company sales to grow in the high single digits for the quarter. In our Retail segment, comp sales could grow mid-single-digit positive with high single-digit positive Retail segment comps at the Urban Outfitter brand. Mid-single-digit positive Retail segment comps in Anthropologie and low to mid-single-digit positive Retail segment comps at Free People. At Nuuly, the brand could deliver mid-double-digit revenue growth driven by continued subscriber momentum. Finally, our Wholesale segment could produce mid-single-digit growth.

Based on our current sales performance and plan, we believe URBN's full year gross profit margins could increase by approximately 100 basis points with the second half growing by approximately 50 basis points versus last year. Within the remaining second half, fourth quarter gross profit margins could increase by approximately 25 to 50 basis points as lower product markdowns, particularly the Urban Outfitters brand, are partly offset by lower initial merchandise margins due to increased tariffs. Our current assumptions on tariffs are based on the announced tariff rates as of November 24, which includes 50% tariff rate on goods from India.

Turning to SG&A. We expect expenses to grow roughly in line with sales for the full year and fourth quarter based on current sales performance and plans. The planned growth in fourth quarter SG&A is mainly driven by higher marketing spend to support customer and sales growth, along with increased store labor costs related to new store locations. As always, if sales performance fluctuates, we maintain a certain level of variable SG&A spending that we can adjust up and down depending on how our business is performing. We are currently planning for an effective tax rate of about 23.5% for the fourth quarter and 22.5% for the full year.

Now on to inventory. In Q4, we expect inventory could grow at a rate similar to fourth quarter sales as our teams continue to focus on increasing our product turns. For FY '26, capital expenditures are planned at approximately $300 million. The FY '26 capital project spend is broken down as follows: Approximately 45% is related to retail store expansion and support, approximately 35% is related to supporting technology and logistics investments, and the remaining 20% is for home office expansion to support our growing business.

Lastly, we're planning to open approximately 69 new stores and close approximately 17 this year. Most of our net new store growth will come from the FP Movement, Free People and Anthropologie. Specifically, we're planning 25 new FP Movement stores, 18 new Free People stores and 16 new Anthropologie stores. As a reminder, the foregoing does not constitute a forecast but is simply a reflection of our current views. The company disclaims any obligation to update forward-looking statements.

With that, I'll hand it back over to Dick.

Richard Hayne
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thanks, Melanie. As you've heard, our teams produced another great performance with every brand contributing meaningfully to our outstanding results. Robust comparable sales across our brand portfolio demonstrated their power and the rigor of our execution. The Anthropologie, Free People and FP Movement brands achieved record sales while successfully maintaining double-digit operating profitability. The Urban Outfitters brand posted strong double-digit comparable sales in both geographies, driven by better product, improved marketing and more full-price customers. As a result, the Urban brand delivered significant profit improvement versus last year.

Complementing the Retail results, Nuuly, our subscription rental concept, continued its impressive trajectory of strong subscriber and revenue growth while delivering healthy operating profits. During the quarter, customer engagement was lively with both store traffic and online session growth up sharply. Our customers responded enthusiastically to our compelling product offerings and distinctive brand experiences and drove record third quarter results. This sustained performance is a direct testament to the strength and resilience of our diversified business model. We have built a strategic model that is sturdy across multiple dimensions.

Our diversification by channel, spanning stores, digital, wholesale and subscription services and by brand, with a portfolio catering to different customer segments provides inherent stability. Furthermore, our broad category offering, including apparel, accessories, shoes, home and beauty, ensures that if customer preferences shift, we will remain relevant. This powerful multifaceted approach to diversification gives us high confidence that with smart execution, we can continue to grow our market share regardless of the operating environment.

Looking ahead, November traffic and sales remain robust. Our Retail segment comp sales are currently running slightly ahead of our stated Q4 plan to deliver mid-single-digit comp growth. We anticipate the holiday season will, as always, be highly competitive and promotional. We have observed a slight shift in consumers' behavior. We believe customers were waiting a bit longer this year to make their purchases until seasonal promotions began, and we successfully met this shift with strong results in our early holiday events. As Frank noted earlier, despite the expected promotional landscape, we believe the power of our model allows us to achieve improved operating margins in Q4 versus the prior year. For now, we are focused on closing the year successfully by delivering another quarter and year of record-setting results and continuing to deliver shareholder value.

Finally, my thanks to our entire URBN family, brands and shared services, for producing another superior quarter. I want to acknowledge the phenomenal job each of our brand leaders, their teams and our co-presidents, Meg and Frank, have done. I understand the hard work and long hours you all devote to making our brands amongst the best in retail today, and I'm deeply appreciative. Our results are a testament to your effort and your talent. I also thank our partners around the globe for your cooperation as we work together to solve the problems imposed by tariffs. And finally, I thank our shareholders for your ongoing support.

That concludes our prepared remarks. I now invite your questions.