Universal Technical Institute, Inc. (UTI) Q4 2025 Earnings Call November 19, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Matthew Kempton - Vice President of Corporate Finance
Jerome Grant - CEO & Director
Bruce Schuman - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Jasper Bibb - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Mike Grondahl - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division
Griffin Boss - B. Riley Securities, Inc., Research Division
Raj Sharma

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and welcome to the Universal Technical Institute Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Matt Kempton, Vice President, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Matthew Kempton
Vice President of Corporate Finance

Hello and welcome to Universal Technical Institute's Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Call. Joining me today are our CEO, Jerome Grant; and CFO, Bruce Schuman. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call for your questions. A replay of this call, its transcript and our investor presentation will be archived on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.uti.edu, along with our earnings release issued earlier today and furnished to the SEC.

During this call, we may make comments that contain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which, by their nature, address matters that are in the future and are uncertain. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed in our earnings release and SEC filings. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and therefore, undue reliance should not be placed upon them. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future developments, except as required by law.

Please note, unless otherwise stated, all comparisons in this call will be against our results for the comparable period of fiscal 2024. The information presented today also includes non-GAAP financial measures. These should be viewed in addition to and not as a substitute for the company's reported results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. All non-GAAP financial measures referenced in today's call are reconciled in our earnings press release to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. For more information regarding definitions of our non-GAAP measures, please see our earnings release, financial supplement and investor presentation.

With that, I will turn the call over to Jerome Grant, CEO of Universal Technical Institute, for his prepared remarks. Jerome?

Jerome Grant
CEO & Director

Thank you, Matt. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us.

We launched our "North Star" strategy in 2020 with a focus on growth, diversification and optimization. The first phase of this strategy successfully concluded with the close of fiscal year 2024. In that first phase, we saw our student population more than double from 10,000 to over 22,000. Revenue grew from just over $300 million to $733 million, and adjusted EBITDA increased from $14 million to $103 million. All of this was accomplished while improving student outcomes and employer satisfaction.

Fiscal 2025 marked the first year of the next phase of our "North Star" strategy, a year that demonstrated the strength of our strategy, the depth of our execution and capitalized on the momentum we built as a diversified growth-oriented education company. We entered the first year of our North Star Strategy Phase 2 with high expectations, and we delivered results that exceeded such expectations. Revenue surpassed our twice raised guidance range, reaching $836 million or 14% year-over-year growth. To reiterate, we raised our top line guidance twice throughout the first half of the year and raised the lower end of our range in the last quarter. So the beat you see today isn't just against our original forecast. It's against numbers we already raised intra-year.

Our baseline adjusted EBITDA for the year was $133 million before incurring strategic growth investments of $6.5 million, netting us a reported adjusted EBITDA number of $126.5 million. As important, average full-time active students rose more than 10%, with new student starts increasing nearly 11% year-over-year. These results underscore both the resiliency of demand for skilled trades and health care careers and the effectiveness of our multidivisional model. In just a few minutes, Bruce will delve further into the details of our Q4 and full fiscal year 2025 performance. Operationally, fiscal 2025 was equally strong. Once again, we executed at a high level on all 3 pillars of our growth, diversification and optimization strategy.

As committed, we successfully launched 19 new programs across our 2 divisions, extending our reach into fast-growing sectors and expanding access for students nationwide. These included 9 full-length programs, 8 within UTI and 1 within Concorde, along with 10 shorter cash pay courses designed to serve working adults and regional employers seeking rapid training options. We also further enhanced our operational foundation, aligning brands, streamlining marketing admissions and optimizing our campuses, such as the UTI Dallas campus and Concorde Denver location. Together, these initiatives have delivered meaningful efficiency gains while enabling us to scale faster and smarter in the future. This first year of the second phase of our "North Star" strategy proved that our platform works, our transformation is durable and that we are ready for the next chapter of UTI's evolution, exactly as we drew it up years ago.

With an outstanding year of execution laying the foundation, we are set up to deliver strong growth over the next 4 years. Frankly, we couldn't be in a better position to kick off fiscal 2026, which will be the true inflection point for our continued growth as accelerated by our "North Star" strategy. As we transition our focus to 2026, I'd like to take a moment to express my gratitude to our team, our students and our partners around the country. Without all of you, none of these successes would be possible. As we now enter fiscal 2026, our operational priorities are clear: expand our campus footprint, launch new programs at scale and continue to grow our student base while maintaining quality and performance discipline. We are on track to open 3 new campuses during fiscal 2026.

First, the Heartland Dental co-branded campus in Fort Myers, Florida, which expands Concorde's health care reach and will serve as a model for future co-branded opportunities is set to open next week. The UTI Atlanta campus is a comprehensive greenfield site that will serve one of the nation's fastest-growing metropolitan areas and support programs in automotive, diesel, skilled trades and aviation technologies. The UTI San Antonio campus, which is our first skilled trades and aviation focused location, adds capacity in a state where demand for technical education continues to significantly outpace supply. Alongside those openings, now that the path is clear to execute Concorde's growth strategy, we expect to launch approximately 20 new programs across our 2 divisions in fiscal 2026, which is significantly more than previously planned.

These additions are tightly aligned with employer demand and will build on the success of our fiscal 2025 "North Star" Phase II rollout. Financially, we expect revenue for fiscal year 2026 to be between $905 million and $915 million, representing approximately a 9% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. I want to be deliberate here. Without our planned growth investments this year, our baseline adjusted EBITDA guidance is expected to be north of $150 million. Yet as we will be including approximately $40 million in planned growth investments as part of our now accelerated growth time line, we project that we will be printing adjusted EBITDA between $114 million and $119 million. To you, our investors, the scale of these gross investments should not come as a surprise as we've been signaling our advantageous position to accelerate our growth throughout the past year.

These investments represent the front-loaded expenses of launching campuses, hiring faculty and building capacity for long-term scale. To move on, new student starts are expected to range between 31,500 and 33,000. This near double-digit growth is driven by healthy demand trends, expanding program capacity and improved marketing and admissions ecosystem that's producing higher quality leads and better conversion rates. In short, fiscal 2026 will be a year of investment, expansion and activation. We're taking the platform we've built over the last 3 years and moving it fully into growth mode. While these investments, as we've outlined in the past, will temporarily moderate our reported margins, they are essential to establishing the next level of scale. We've often said that UTI's growth story is not linear, and that remains true.

Fiscal 2026 and 2027 are our build years. The returns begin ramping quite rapidly in fiscal 2028 and beyond. Years 2 through 5 of our "North Star" Phase II represent the next chapter of UTI's transformation, focused on accelerating growth, expanding access and scaling impact. And to remind everyone here, thanks to our diligent execution and new level of collaboration in Washington, we're actually 1 year ahead of schedule. This gives us an additional year to build momentum and execute. As a result, this means that operationally over the next several years, we now plan to open a minimum of 2 new campuses and up to 5 new campuses annually as well as launching approximately 20 new programs annually across both UTI and Concorde divisions, depending on regulatory approvals.

With respect to campus locations, I'm sure you all read our recent announcement outlining the first 3 campuses we plan to launch in 2027. As our 2027 plans continue to evolve, you'll hear more from us. The programs we launch will continue to target areas of national workforce shortage from nursing and dental hygiene to diesel, renewable energy and advanced manufacturing, reinforcing UTI's position as a leader in closing America's skill gap. We expect the financial impact of these initiatives to compound steadily and show strong momentum by the end of fiscal 2029. As previously noted, revenue growth should continue to average about 10% over this time period. Strategic operating and capital investments should be relatively consistent between 2026 and 2029, enabling margin expansion to begin slowly in 2027 before ramping more rapidly in 2028 and especially 2029.

As a result of this acceleration, we now anticipate generating more than $1.2 billion in annual revenue and approaching $220 million in adjusted EBITDA in fiscal 2029. This rapid expansion in the last 2 years of the phase is driven by both maturity of our campuses and program replications launched in 2026 and 2027. Please refer to our investor deck for more details. To put that scale into perspective, by the end of fiscal year 2029, we now expect our revenue to nearly double and our adjusted EBITDA to be more than double what they were in 2024. Phase II is not just an extension of our growth story, but a transformation of our scale, reach and impact, and it sets the stage for what comes next. Even by 2029, we won't have made more than a dent in America's skilled workforce gap, which means there's still an enormous runway in front of us.

As Ford's CEO just last weekend noted, the industry is struggling to fill thousands of high-paying technician roles, underscoring how substantial the demand remains. So as I look ahead, I couldn't be more confident in where we're headed. We're executing from the strongest operational and financial position in our company's history, and we're building something that's designed to endure, thrive and grow well past 2029. In fact, we're already starting to think about 2030 and beyond, building on that durable, repeatable growth engine that we've created. That could mean continuing our organic expansion, accelerating structured B2B partnerships with employers, the military and state workforce initiatives, including opportunities around AI-enabled training and automation or even pursuing strategic acquisitions that broaden our reach into new geographies and product sets.

We have the platform, the balance sheet and the team to do all of it. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bruce, our CFO, to review our fiscal 2025 financials and provide you with further details on our guidance.

Bruce Schuman
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Jerome. Fiscal 2025 was another year of exceptional growth. We met or surpassed all of our raised top line guidance metrics for the year, demonstrating the scalability of our model and giving us a solid foundation to accelerate the next phase of our "North Star" strategy. In the fourth quarter, total average full-time active students grew 8.1% year-over-year to 25,049, while total new student starts increased 5.4% to 12,109. For the full year, average full-time active students increased 10.5% to 24,618 and new student starts increased 10.8% to 29,793, coming in on the upper end of our raised guidance range.

The Concorde division drove a 14.5% increase in both average full-time active students and new student starts for fiscal 2025. These increases are a result of continued marketing and admissions investments and robust demand for Concorde's programs. The UTI division generated an 8% increase year-over-year in average full-time active students for the full year and new student starts grew 7.9%. The growth in average full-time active students reflects the sustained demand for the skilled trades and the 8 new programs launched throughout the year.

Turning to our financial performance. Fourth quarter revenue on a consolidated basis increased 13.3% to $222.4 million. Concorde contributed $77.8 million, an increase of 18.2% over the prior year quarter, while the UTI division contributed $144.6 million, an increase of 10.8% over the prior year quarter. For the full year, consolidated revenue grew 14% to $835.6 million, exceeding the upper end of our guidance range, which, as Jerome mentioned, we raised multiple times throughout the year. Concorde contributed $293.8 million, an increase of 19.3% over the prior year, while the UTI division contributed $541.8 million, representing an 11.4% increase over the prior year.

Shifting to profitability. Consolidated net income for the fourth quarter was $18.8 million or $0.34 per diluted share and $63 million or $1.13 per diluted share for the full year. Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $36.8 million and $126.5 million for the full year. Full year net income and earnings per share exceeded the upper end of our guidance range and adjusted EBITDA was in the middle of our projected range. These results included over $6 million in growth investments related to new program launches and new campus build-outs. At the end of the year, we had 54.4 million shares outstanding. Total available liquidity at the end of the quarter was $254.5 million, including $41.8 million of short-term investments and $85.4 million of remaining capacity on our revolving credit facility.

Fiscal 2025 cash flow from operating activities was $97.3 million and capital expenditures were $42 million. Regarding free cash flow, due to the Department of Education's strategy to intensify the verification process for students, cash disbursements were temporarily delayed. The result of these timing impacts was that our fiscal 2025 adjusted free cash flow was $56 million, slightly below our expectations. We expect the remainder of these impacts and delayed accounts receivable to be worked through within the next few months. Looking forward, our results in fiscal 2025 give us real confidence in the road ahead. We finished the year with strong momentum across both divisions due to the ongoing demand for education in the skilled trades. Fiscal 2026 is about turning the momentum we've driven by our first year of "North Star" Phase II into measurable expansion through disciplined execution.

Starting with revenue, we expect to generate between $905 million and $915 million for fiscal 2026 or approximately 9% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. For the first 3 quarters, we expect mid- to high single-digit revenue growth with Q2 being the lowest. Q4 is anticipated to be the highest growth quarter in the low double-digit range. Total new student starts are expected to range between 31,500 and 33,000. For the first quarter, we expect low single-digit growth, then low to mid-double-digit growth in Q2 and mid- to high single-digit growth in the remaining quarters. For fiscal 2026 net income, we expect a range of $40 million to $45 million and diluted earnings per share ranging between $0.71 and $0.80. While revenue will be up every quarter, as noted, as we begin to make our significant growth investments this year, net income growth will be strongly negative for the first 2 quarters, improving slightly, though still negative in Q3, turning positive to low double-digit growth in Q4.

As a point of clarity, we've seen no impact in our first quarter due to the recently resolved government shutdown. We expect our full year baseline adjusted EBITDA to exceed $150 million and our SEC reported adjusted EBITDA to range from $114 million to $119 million. Embedded in this guidance and bridging from that baseline to our reported adjusted EBITDA is approximately $40 million in growth investments, primarily related to the following 2 items: the first is campus expansions, which includes the preopening and launch costs for the 3 new campuses opening in fiscal '26 and preparatory work for even more campuses opening in fiscal '27. The second item is program development, which includes faculty recruitment and educational tools needed for 20-plus new programs opening in fiscal year 2026 with more coming the year after.

In terms of the quarterly profile for the year for adjusted EBITDA, similar to net income as we begin to make our significant growth investments this year, growth will be strongly negative for the first 2 quarters with high single-digit growth expected in Q3 and significantly stronger growth in Q4. As a reminder, growth investments are not added back when calculating our adjusted EBITDA. These are investments we've been building a plan for and signaling throughout the year and are not previously unaccounted for impacts. We will be deliberately and strategically reinvesting more heavily beginning in fiscal 2026 to position the company for accelerated returns in the coming years.

As a result, we expect to see marginal growth in adjusted EBITDA beginning in fiscal 2027, which will begin to accelerate more significantly in 2028 and even further into 2029 as our array of new campuses and programs ramp and yield higher returns. We anticipate 2026 full year adjusted free cash flow to range between $20 million and $25 million, which assumes approximately $100 million in CapEx spend, consistent with our multiyear plan to support campus growth and modernization. We expect the bulk of our cash generation and year-over-year growth to materialize in the fourth quarter, consistent with our historical cadence. I want to reiterate what we expect to deliver at the conclusion of this next phase. As a result of "North Star" Phase II, we expect to achieve more than $1.2 billion in revenue, equating to roughly a 10% compound annual revenue growth rate and to approach $220 million in adjusted EBITDA by fiscal 2029.

Driving these results will be approximately $100 million of total CapEx invested in new campuses and program expansions each year. These investments will fuel our next wave of growth and position us to deliver stronger returns, higher margins and a diversified, durable and repeatable growth engine over time. We remain confident in our ability to fund this growth strategy from cash on hand and cash generated from operations in the coming years. Again, we're thrilled with what the team has delivered in 2025 and are excited for 2026 and how this inflection point for the company will drive even stronger growth in the years to come. In addition to this earnings call transcript, we encourage everyone to review our press release, financial supplement, investor presentation and upcoming 10-K filing. These materials include the latest updates on our consolidated and segment results, strategic initiatives and guidance. Thank you to our students, team, partners and investors for their ongoing support. I'd now like to turn the call over to the operator for Q&A. Operator?