Visa Inc. (V) Q4 2025 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 5:00 PM EDT

Company Participants

Jennifer Como - Head of Investor Relations
Ryan McInerney - President, CEO & Director
Christopher Suh - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Sanjay Sakhrani - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
James Faucette - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jason Kupferberg - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
David Koning - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Darrin Peller - Wolfe Research, LLC
Rayna Kumar - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Kenneth Suchoski - Autonomous Research US LP
Bryan Keane - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Harshita Rawat - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Andrew Schmidt - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Timothy Chiodo - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Tien-Tsin Huang - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to Visa's Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Ms. Jennifer Como, Senior Vice President and Global Head of Investor Relations. Ms. Como, you may begin.

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations

Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa's Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Call. Joining us today are Ryan McInerney, Visa's Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Suh, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.visa.com. A replay will be archived on our site for 30 days. A slide deck containing financial and statistical highlights has been posted on our IR website.

Let me also remind you that this presentation includes forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could differ materially as a result of many factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, which you can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

Our comments today regarding our financial results will reflect revenue on a GAAP basis and all other results on a non-GAAP nominal basis unless otherwise noted. The related GAAP measures and reconciliation are available in today's earnings release and related materials available on our IR website.

And with that, let me turn the call over to Ryan.

Ryan McInerney
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Jennifer. We finished fiscal full year 2025 with strong financial performance, an ever-growing obsession for our clients and a sharp focus on innovation as we build the future of payments. Fiscal fourth quarter net revenue grew 12% year-over-year to $10.7 billion, and EPS was up 10%, resulting in full year net revenue and EPS year-over-year growth of 11% and 14%, respectively.

Total full year payments volume was $14 trillion, up 8% year-over-year in constant dollars, and process transactions totaled $258 billion, up 10% year-over-year. Our financial performance and growth demonstrate how Visa has become a hyperscaler, enabling anyone that wants to be in the money movement or payments business to build on top of the Visa as a Service stack. You may recall the layers of the stack, the foundation layer, the services layer, the solutions layer and the access layer. Throughout 2025 and most recently in Q4, we have intensified our investment in innovation.

Today, I want to highlight Visa's progress with our clients and the ecosystem at large across the Visa as a Service stack, starting with the foundation layer. At the foundation of the stack is our global connectivity, our network and our network of networks that enable global commerce and money movement.

In full year 2025, we expanded our network of networks in 3 important ways: first, more connection points, visa's network of networks now has approximately 12 billion end points. That's about 4 billion cards, bank accounts and digital wallets each; second, more settlement currencies, we are adding support for 4 stablecoins running on 4 unique blockchains representing 2 currencies that we can accept and convert to over 25 traditional fiat currencies; and third, we have begun deployment of the next generation of VisaNet, the core processing platform in our Visa as a Service stack. It offers a cloud-ready micro services distributed modular architecture that uses open languages and technologies, enabling easier scaling, configuration and faster feature deployment. Over half of the new code base was built with the assistance of generative AI, improving development speed, security and maintainability. We have specific modules in market today with plans to roll out additional modules and markets.

The next level of the Visa as a Service stack is our services layer, which encompasses the building blocks of our core capabilities, including credentials, tokens, authentication, risk management, fraud detection and more, which we've turned into discrete modular components. We grew the number of Visa credentials by 270 million this year, and we continue to sign many deals this past quarter to drive further growth. I'll share a few regional highlights.

We are pleased to have renewed our nearly 60-year relationship with Barclays in the U.K. and the U.S. across their millions of customers in consumer and commercial issuing and acquiring, and enabling increased focus on value-added services utilization. In the U.S., Visa continues to be the exclusive payment network for the Southwest Airlines co-brand program, and we will soon be expanding our relationship into a co-brand debit offering, providing customers a new way to earn Rapid Rewards points on everyday purchases.

In Latin America, We won the new Scotiabank wealth management credit card issuance with our Visa Infinite product across 7 countries. And in Mainland China, one of our largest clients, China Merchants Bank, has renewed their long-standing relationship with us as we continue to upgrade China's magstripe dual-branded cards to contactless EMV chip cards.

Moving to tokens. We now have over 16 billion Visa tokens, up from 10 billion just in May of 2024. We continue to increase the amount of Visa tokens globally in pursuit of our ultimate goal of 100% of e-commerce transactions tokenized. We continue to enhance our risk management capabilities, including Visa scam disruption, which proactively detects scam activity at the network level that no single issuer, acquirer or a merchant could see alone and leverages AI-enhanced merchant monitoring external intelligence feeds and our global expertise. Just a year since launch, we have worked closely with our clients and law enforcement to dismantle more than 25,000 scam merchants representing more than $1 billion in fraud attempts.

Our stablecoin platform is another key component of our services layer. Since 2020, we facilitated over $140 billion in crypto and stablecoin flows, including Visa users purchasing more than $100 billion of crypto and stablecoin assets using their Visa credentials and spending more than $35 billion in crypto and stablecoin assets using Visa credentials. Within this, we see particular momentum with stablecoins. We now have more than 130 stablecoin-linked card issuing programs in over 40 countries. And in Q4, stablecoin-linked Visa card spend quadrupled versus a year ago.

We expanded the number of stablecoins and blockchains available for settlement, and monthly volume has now passed a $2.5 billion annualized run rate. We are starting to enable banks to mint and burn their own stablecoins with the Visa Tokenized Asset Platform, and we are adding stablecoin capabilities to enhance cross-border money movement with Visa Direct. In September 2025, we announced a stablecoin prefunding Visa Direct pilot targeting banks, remitters and financial institutions seeking faster, more flexible ways to manage liquidity, and there is much more to come in this space.

The next level of the Visa as a Service stack is our solutions layer, a comprehensive portfolio of solutions where we have taken the componentized capabilities from the services layer and invested in and enhanced them to create new features and capabilities we deliver to a broader array of customers and partners. If we look across our growth levers in this layer, I would note progress in a number of areas.

In consumer payments, Visa Intelligent Commerce integrates Visa's token technology with authentication and predictive analytics empowering partners to deploy secure, personalized digital commerce experiences. And I'm pleased to announce that we are now powering live agentic transactions and recently released a merchant agent toolkit to make it easy for developers to embed our solutions into workflows and agentic processes.

Just 2 weeks ago, we announced the Visa Trusted Agent Protocol, a framework that enables safer agent-driven checkout by helping merchants verify agents and avoid malicious bots. And since it's built on existing messaging standards, minimal integration is required for merchants.

Next, our Visa Flex Credential continues to gain momentum, enabling consumers to access many underlying funding sources with a single credential powered by Visa token technology, for example, the Klarna card launched in 15 European markets, building on its success in the U.S. where it had over 1 million sign-ups in less than 3 months, and they will expand to even more markets soon. Our Visa Flex pipeline is strong, and we now have more than 20 signed clients in more than 20 countries across all regions, including our first Visa Flex announcement in LAC with [ Niko ].

Our Visa Accept Solution enables even the smallest of sellers to accept card payments with just a Visa debit card and an NFC capable smartphone. Our first live launch of Visa Accept was in Sri Lanka, which represents an opportunity to bring an estimated 7 million sellers onto the Visa network, most of which are informal sellers who primarily transact in cash today. And this is just our first launch. We are targeting 25 countries across several regions where we expect to launch Visa Accept soon with even more expansion to follow.

Our Visa Pay solution connects any participating wallet to any Visa accepting seller worldwide, local or international, in-store or online. We are pleased to now be processing live Visa Pay transactions in 4 markets across AP and CEMEA, including our recently announced market launch in the Democratic Republic of Congo.

In addition, we have a pipeline with more than 70 clients to expand across more markets in 2026 and beyond. Rounding out consumer payments is tapped to everything. 79% of all face-to-face transactions are taps, up 8 percentage points this year with the U.S. at 66%. Our transit initiatives contributed to this expansion, and this year, we enabled more than 100 new transit systems to now total approximately 1,000 systems globally, delivering 19% year-over-year growth in transactions.

In Europe, BBVA recently launched BBVA Pay, enabling tapping from an iOS device for all Visa cards within their banking app. They also have enabled customers to use AI to create their own personalized Visa cards starting in Spain.

Tap to Phone, which provides an easy, low-cost method for micro sellers to begin accepting card payments or large sellers to add additional mobile terminals, has now passed 20 million transacting devices, more than doubling since last year with strong growth across all regions. And Tap to Add Card launched a little over a year ago, has strong adoption as consumers and our partners see the value of a simplified, more secure customer experience where a simple card tap to a mobile device can add a Visa credential to a digital wallet. Since Q3, we have doubled the count of issuers participating globally to more than 600 across all regions resulting in the service being live for more than 1.4 billion Visa credit and debit cards around the world.

Shifting to CMS and starting with Visa Commercial Solutions. Our full year 2025 commercial payments volume grew 7% in constant dollars to $1.8 trillion. This was helped by targeting specific segments including business owners and online travel agencies. In the premium card segment, we supported Chase with the launch of Chase Sapphire Reserve for Business on Visa Infinite, an expansion of the Sapphire Reserve product line. The Sapphire Reserve for Business card is designed to meet the needs of business owners by elevating their travel experience and offering premium benefits and value toward business services to help fuel their growth.

And also in the U.S., we are excited to have partnered with Truist to launch the Truist Business Premium Visa Infinite card, a premium credit card designed for small businesses with meaningful annual spend. They are the first super regional to do so in this country.

Our purpose-built travel solution offers virtual card credentials, automated reconciliation and rich data. We recently won Trip.com's global virtual travel card issuing business, which will be issued through their fintech, TripLink.

In our traditional carded business, our global network agnostic enhanced spend management capabilities have helped us to expand our partnership with BMO. We recently won new commercial issuance, and BMO will offer our Spend Clarity for Enterprise tool to their corporates in the U.S. and Canada.

Our unique FX capabilities enabled us to win a de novo issuing relationship with ICICI Bank for India's first corporate ForEx prepaid card, targeting both SMBs and large corporates to meet foreign exchange payment needs for business travel. In fact, in India, Visa SMB cards have doubled since 2020 and now total more than 10 million, helping us to grow total commercial cards to 340 million worldwide.

Moving on to Visa Direct, which reached 12.6 billion transactions in full year 2025, up 27% year-over-year. Our push to account and wallet funding capabilities continue to help us to expand cross-border payouts. We signed with KCB in East Africa, where they will use Visa Direct to account for 8 corridors across their more than 30 million individual and business customers.

Touch 'n Go eWallet, the largest wallet in Malaysia with more than 24 million users, will leverage Visa Direct to enable tourists to fund their wallets across 8 corridors. And Al Rajhi, a leading remitter with the largest branch network in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, expanded on its Visa Direct to card usage to now include Visa Direct to account.

And our interoperability capabilities unlocked through our YellowPepper acquisition enabled us to renew with Yape and Plin, securing our position as the leader for interoperable transactions in Peru.

Now moving to value-added services, where we have seen our innovations across issuing, acceptance, risk and advisory continue to power our growth. We have achieved our goal to expand Pismo's offerings to clients in more than 5 countries across 4 regions in 2025. In the fourth quarter, we signed our first Pismo deal for a stablecoin-linked card with Gnosis Pay in Europe.

In Acceptance Solutions, our Token Management Service, or TMS, provides a single network and payment service provider agnostic integration to simplify token adoption, access and management for merchants and acquiring clients. This quarter, we signed with Booking.com for TMS and account updater across more than 65 markets, deepening our presence in the online travel platform space.

Many of our risk and security solutions are also network agnostic. Let me highlight a few points of progress. Visa Advanced Authorization evaluates more than 400 unique attributes in a few milliseconds, and this quarter, Banco Diners in Ecuador deployed our network agnostic solution to score both Visa and non-Visa transactions, the first bank in LAC to do so.

Our award-winning product, Visa Protect for A2A, is delivering value with AI. Our pilot in Brazil scored nearly $500 billion of our bank partner's, Pix, volume over a 6-month period and identified over $90 million of fraud, which could have been prevented with a detection rate of more than 80%. We believe Visa Protect for A2A can play an important role in Brazil by providing real-time fraud monitoring on Pix, helping to reduce fraud for our bank partners and ensure a safer payment experience for buyers and sellers.

Our most recently acquired risk capabilities from Featurespace are being sought after by our clients with more than 100 closed client deals since January. And our advisory services continued to deliver revenue and deepen our client relationships across Visa. In consulting, we estimate that we helped clients realize over $6.5 billion of incremental revenue as a result of delivering almost 4,500 engagements during the year, including GenAI and stablecoin engagements.

In marketing services, our flagship sponsorships include the FIFA World Cup 2026 in the U.S., Canada and Mexico as well as the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games in Milano Cortina. We are already seeing significant interest from our clients as they seek to offer unique cardholder experiences and build their brand in addition to helping drive issuance, acceptance and engagement. One Olympic and Paralympic related marketing example was our first large-scale campaign created using generative AI tools for Intesa Sanpaolo, which showcased a ski race down the streets of Italy's seaside villages. We already have over 35 clients engaged with us for marketing services for the 2026 Olympic and Paralympic Games and more than 70 for the FIFA World Cup 2026 with more than 100 already in our pipeline.

The fourth and final layer of the Visa as a Service stack on top of the foundation layer, the services layer and the solutions layer is the access layer, the client entry point to access Visa solutions. We take an open partnership approach and seek to provide value by enabling access to our Visa as a Service stack through multiple integration methods, including custom integrations, programmatic access via APIs and structured data exchange through our Model Context Protocol, or MCP, server.

We remain the payments platform of choice in full year 2025 with more than 700 billion API calls across our more than 3,700 end points. And we recently launched our MCP server, providing access for AI systems to interface with our Visa Intelligent Commerce APIs. Our open, flexible access layer enables anyone, whether a small business, a tech partner or a global bank, to build on top of the Visa as a Service stack and operate at scale instantly.

In conclusion, you can see our intense focus on innovation is delivering results for Visa and our clients. The Visa as a Service stack has positioned Visa to be a hyperscaler for the payments ecosystem. Our strong fiscal year 2025 performance is a result of our products resonating in the market and our commitment to our clients every day. I want to thank our more than 34,000 employees around the world who will continue to obsess about our clients and work tirelessly in 2026 and beyond to deliver value through the Visa as a Service stack to our clients and across our partner ecosystem.

We live in remarkable times in payments as technologies are converging to reshape commerce. And at Visa, with our clients, partners, sellers and consumers, we are keeping our focus on innovation and product development, positioning Visa to lead this transformation.

Now to Chris, where he will discuss our financial performance and outlook for 2026.

Christopher Suh
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Ryan, and good afternoon, everyone. Building on the momentum we saw through the first 3 quarters, we had a very good Q4 to finish the year with continued strong and stable business drivers. In constant dollars, global payments volume was up 9% year-over-year, improving slightly from Q3. Cross-border volume excluding intra Europe, was up 11% and total processed transactions grew 10%, both relatively stable to Q3.

Fiscal fourth quarter net revenue was up 12% year-over-year, better than expected, primarily due to value-added services revenue, commercial and money movement solutions revenue, and a benefit from FX. Fourth quarter net revenue was up 11% in constant dollars. EPS was up 10% year-over-year in both nominal and constant dollars, better than expected -- primarily due to better-than-expected net revenue.

Let's go into the details. Total international payments volume was up 10% year-over-year in constant dollars in Q4, generally consistent with Q3. Of note, we saw acceleration in Asia Pacific of approximately 2.5 points on a constant dollar basis, driven by timing effects and a modest improvement in Mainland China.

U.S. payments volume was up 8%, slightly above Q3 with e-commerce growing faster than face-to-face spend. Credit and debit were both up 8%, reflecting resilience in consumer spending.

When we look at quarterly spend category data in the U.S., we saw broad-based strength, including improvements in retail services and goods, travel and fuel. Both discretionary and nondiscretionary spend were up from Q3. And growth across consumer spend bands remained relatively consistent with Q3 with the highest spend band continuing to grow the fastest.

Now to cross-border volume, which I'll speak to in constant dollars and excluding intra-Europe transactions.

Q4 total cross-border volume was up 11% year-over-year relatively stable to last quarter, with e-commerce up 13%, and travel improving sequentially to 10%. eCommerce remains strong as it has for the last 8 quarters now and still represented about 40% of our total cross-border volume. Travel spend continued to grow above pre-COVID levels. The slight step-up from Q3 was led by a combination of factors, including increased commercial volumes, helped by our efforts in virtual card and some improvement in CEMEA outbound due to holiday timing.

With that as a backdrop, I'll move to discuss our financial results. Starting with the revenue components. Service revenue grew 10% year-over-year versus the 8% growth in Q3 constant dollars payments volume, primarily due to card benefits and pricing. Data processing revenue grew 17% versus the 10% growth in process transactions, primarily due to pricing and higher cross-border transaction mix. International transaction revenue was up 10%, below the 11% increase in constant dollar cross-border volume growth, excluding intra Europe, primarily due to mix, partially offset by exchange rates.

Other revenue grew 21%, primarily driven by growth in advisory and other value-added services and pricing. Client incentives grew 17%, in line with our expectations as we lapped onetime adjustments from Q4 of fiscal '24.

Now to our 3 growth engines. Consumer payments revenue was driven by strong payments volume, cross-border volume and process transaction growth. Commercial and money movement solutions revenue grew 14% year-over-year in constant dollars as we lap the onetime adjustment we saw in Q4 FY '24. CMS revenue was better than expected, driven primarily by our Commercial Solutions business.

Commercial payments volume grew 10% in constant dollars, 3 points above Q3 growth and faster than Visa's overall payments volume growth primarily due to new portfolio wins and the lapping of certain portfolio losses with strong client performance, especially in cross-border.

Visa Direct transactions grew 23% to 3.4 billion transactions with strength in both domestic and cross-border. Value-added services revenue grew 25% in constant dollars to $3 billion, driven by issuing solutions, advisory and other services, and pricing. Value-added services revenue growth was better than expected, primarily due to issuing solutions, both in network products and card benefits.

Operating expenses grew 13%, above our expectations due to a larger-than-expected FX impact and higher-than-expected personnel expenses as a result of deferred compensation mark to market, which, as a reminder, is EPS neutral. Excluding those 2 factors, adjusted operating expense growth would have been as expected. Nonoperating income was $29 million, higher than expected due to investment income from the deferred compensation mark-to-market benefit that offsets the expense I just mentioned and higher returns on our investments.

Our tax rate for the quarter was 18.8%, in line with expectations. EPS was $2.98, up 10% year-over-year with minimal impacts from exchange rates and acquisitions. In Q4, we bought back approximately $4.9 billion in stock and distributed $1.1 billion in dividends to our shareholders. We also funded the litigation escrow account by $500 million, which has the same effect on EPS as a stock buyback. At the end of September, we had $24.9 billion remaining in our buyback authorization.

With a strong finish to the fiscal year, our full year net revenue grew 11% to $40 billion, and EPS grew 14% to $11.47. Full year 2025 CMS revenue growth was 15%, and value-added services revenue growth was 23% on a constant dollar basis. In a year marked by a significant step-up in uncertainty around the globe, we delivered strong results above our expectations. As we think about 2026, our guidance philosophy holds. We give you our best perspective based on current information. So let's get into the guidance details and a quick note, when I reference 2025 and 2026, I am referring to our fiscal years.

First, let's cover our underlying assumptions for net revenue growth. As we regularly say, we are not economic forecasters, so we're assuming the macroeconomic environment stays generally where it is today and consumer spending remains resilient. On key business drivers, we are assuming no material change from the Q4 2025 growth levels in 2026. On pricing, for 2026, we expect the benefits of new pricing to be similar in magnitude and timing as in 2025, with the majority going into effect in the back half. When you combine that with the 2025 pricing timing, this implies a relatively uniform contribution each quarter with Q1 seeing the largest contribution.

On incentives, we expect around 20% of our payments volume to be impacted by renewals this year, which implies incentive growth generally similar to 2025, with Q3 having the toughest comparable to 2025. On volatility, we expect volatility throughout the year to be generally consistent to where we exited Q4, which implies a drag for the first 3 quarters, with Q3 having the toughest comparable to 2025.

We pull these assumptions together on an adjusted basis defined as non-GAAP results in constant dollars and excluding acquisition impacts. You can review these disclosures in our earnings presentation for more detail.

In 2026, we expect full year adjusted net revenue growth to be in the low double digits. On a nominal basis, we expect an approximately 0.5 point benefit from FX, which implies nominal net revenue growth that is generally consistent with fiscal 2025, which was 11%.

We have an exciting year with the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Q2 and the FIFA World Cup in Q3 and Q4. I'll speak to expense in a moment, but as far as net revenue impacts, we expect the benefit from value-added services to be spread throughout the year as our clients will utilize our solutions in the buildup to and during the events.

In terms of quarterly variability of net revenue, 2 items I would call out. First, we expect Q1 to have the highest year-over-year net revenue growth rate, primarily due to the timing impact of our FY '25 pricing actions. Second, we expect Q3 to have the lowest year-over-year net revenue growth rate, primarily due to the lapping impacts of strong volatility and lower-than-expected incentives in Q3 of 2025.

Now moving to expenses. We expect to continue our significant investments in our Visa as a Service stack across consumer payments, commercial and money movement solutions and value-added services in FY '26. Let me share a few examples.

Within consumer payments, we will enhance our cross-border and affluent offerings, scale recently launched products and expand our stablecoin capabilities, in addition to utilizing our marketing dollars for both the Olympics and FIFA to amplify the Visa brand. Within CMS, we'll focus our investments in specific commercial vertical opportunities and build out new Visa Direct product capabilities focused on cross-border money movement. And within VAS, we'll invest in our product development as well as our sales engineering teams to deepen customer engagement and shortened deal cycles. In addition, we're also investing in our AI efforts. In fact, every leader at the company has AI targets to drive efficiencies that we intend to invest back in the business to further our differentiation, competitive advantage and drive long-term growth.

We currently expect to grow adjusted operating expense in the low double digits, consistent with our net revenue growth. As we think about the cadence of spend, we expect Q2 and Q3 to have the largest year-over-year growth rates as a result of marketing expense related to the Olympics and FIFA.

Now moving to nonoperating income. The nonoperating income we've had for the past 3 years has been a function of cash balances, interest rates and onetime items. In 2026, based on current interest rate forward curves, we now expect nonoperating expense of $125 million to $175 million.

Now to our non-GAAP tax rate. You may recall that we've historically estimated our long-term tax rate to be between 19% and 20%, and this remains unchanged. In both fiscal 2024 and 2025, our actual tax rate was below 18%, helped primarily by our geographic mix of earnings and certain onetime benefits, such as the resolution of tax matters and positions taken on certain taxes. In 2026, we still expect to be below our long-term tax rate. When we incorporate our current tax planning strategies, we expect the tax rate to be between 18.5% and 19%, up from 2024 and 2025, primarily due to the absence of onetime benefits.

On capital return, the Board has declared an increase to our quarterly dividend by 14%, and we intend to return excess free cash flow to shareholders through buybacks. All of this results in our adjusted EPS growth to be in the low double digits.

Moving to Q1. Through October 21, with volume growth in constant dollars, U.S. payments volume was up 7%, with credit and debit both up 7%. Process transactions grew 9% year-over-year. For constant dollar cross-border volume, excluding transactions within Europe, total volume grew 12% year-over-year, with eCommerce up 14% and travel up 11%.

Now on to our financial expectations. We expect Q1 adjusted net revenue growth in the high end of low double digits. We expect adjusted operating expense growth in the low double digits. Nonoperating expense is expected to be about $15 million. And our tax rate in the first quarter is expected to be around 18%. As a result, we expect adjusted first quarter EPS growth to be in the low teens.

When we look on a nominal basis for net revenue growth in Q1, we expect an approximately 0.5 point benefit from FX. And for our expense growth, we expect an approximately 0.5 point drag from FX and a 1 point impact from acquisitions, which, taken together, result in nominal net revenue and expense growth that are more matched at the high end of low double digits. As always, if the environment changes and there are events that impact our business, we will remain flexible and thoughtful on balancing short- and long-term considerations.

Visa's underlying business continues to be healthy and the growth opportunities are significant, together giving us conviction as we make investment decisions to build the future payments to drive compelling net revenue and earnings per share growth.

And now, Jennifer, I'll hand it back to you.

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations

Thanks, Chris. And with that, we're ready to take questions.