V.F. Corporation (VFC) Q2 2026 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 8:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Allegra Perry - Vice President of Investor Relations
Bracken Darrell - President, CEO & Director
Paul Vogel - EVP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jonathan Komp - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Brooke Roach - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Michael Binetti - Evercore Inc.
Irwin Boruchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Adrienne Yih-Tennant - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Anna Andreeva - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Janine Hoffman Stichter - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Tom Nikic - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us, and welcome to the V.F. Corporation Q2 Full Year 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]. I will now hand the call over to Allegra Perry, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Allegra Perry
Vice President of Investor Relations

Hello, and welcome to V.F. Corporation's Second Quarter Fiscal 2026 Conference Call. Participants on today's call will make forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These uncertainties are detailed in documents filed regularly with the SEC.

Unless otherwise noted, amounts referred to on today's call will be on an adjusted constant dollar and continuing operations basis, which we've defined in the presentation, that was posted on Investor Relations website and which we use as lead numbers in our discussion because we believe they more accurately represent the true operational performance and underlying results of our business.

You may also hear us refer to reported amounts, which are in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Reconciliations of GAAP measures to adjusted amounts can be found in the supplemental financial tables included in the presentation which identify and quantify all excluded items and provide management's view of why this information is useful to investors.

Joining me on the call today will be V.F.'s President and Chief Executive Officer, Bracken Darrell; and EVP and Chief Financial Officer, Paul Vogel. Following our prepared remarks, we'll open the call for questions. I'll now hand over to Bracken.

Bracken Darrell
President, CEO & Director

Thank you. Thank you, Allegra. We picked a strange day to do a video conference call because many of us were up for 18 straight innings of baseball. And probably the -- even though this is the most important event happening today is our conference call in the world, the second most important event will be one of the two Major League Baseball games that's also happening today because it's never happened, I guess, or maybe rarely. You'll hear more later as Paul talks about it.

Let me talk you through the financials, but at a really high level. It was a good quarter. We delivered on our commitments, and we made further progress on our turnaround. And we delivered this performance despite admittedly a pretty uncertain and unpredictable environment around the world.

Total revenue was up 2% in reported dollars and down 1% in constant dollars, a little better than planned and showed an improving trend versus last quarter. Operating income was $330 million, well above our guidance range of $260 million to $290 million. Net debt, excluding lease liabilities, was down $1.5 billion versus last year or down 27%.

We're focused on returning the entire company to growth. Last quarter, I highlighted that 60% of our business by revenue was growing, up from just 10% in the prior year. In Q2, so this quarter, that figure expanded to over 65%. And if you took out Dickies, that would be almost 70%.

Speaking of Dickies, during the quarter, we announced our plans to sell the brand. I'm confident it's a very good move for the company and for our shareholders. As we've said before, we'll always evaluate any offer we receive, reflecting our commitment to shareholder value creation. We had an inbound with a very good price of $600 million. We've done a lot of terrific work behind the scenes on the brand and the product portfolio, and I believe this positions the brand well for growth. This was a unique opportunity.

On our end, we'll use the proceeds to pay down debt, consistent with our capital allocation priorities. This allows us to accelerate our path towards our medium-term leverage target of 2.5x or below. We're well on track.

Let me now give you some of the highlights from the quarter on our biggest brands. Let's start with the North Face. The brand delivered another quarter of growth with revenue up 4%. All three regions grew versus last year. We grew in wholesale and in DTC. In terms of categories, Performance Apparel was up in every region with momentum in core styles. Transitional outerwear was strong and footwear continues to gain traction and grew double digits in every region.

Across categories, product innovation, newness and elevation drove growth as we continue to show the extraordinary reach of the North Face from the summit to the street. We also celebrated 25 years of the Summit series, expanding the collection with innovation, adding exciting new colors and designs. This was supported by an athlete-led campaign, featuring our incredible stable of North Face athletes, including the mountaineer Jim Morrison, who recently with Jimmy Chin became the first person ever to climb and ski down the North Face of Mount Everest.

Across our marketing strategy, we're driving high consumer engagement and brand experiences and amplifying that through social channels. In addition to Ultra Trail du Mont Blanc or UTMB, this included ClimbFest in San Francisco, community hiking events in APAC and a Beijing 100K Ultra Trail race.

As you know, as good as I feel about the North Face, I can't help but express what an enormous opportunity remains to be realized. We have potential in new categories and ability to develop the women's business and to build across all seasons of the year.

Timberland revenue was up 4% in Q2 with growth across both wholesale and DTC as well. Americas was up double digits, reflecting a strong back-to-school period. In terms of product, demand for the 6-inch premium boot remains very strong. But today, the premium 6-inch icon represents only about 20% of our global revenue. So we have a lot of opportunity for growth.

We can continue to grow the 6-inch business through colors, materials, innovations, collaborations and more, while we also pursue the huge opportunity to grow this brand across other footwear and apparel categories. Closer to home, the strategy is already showing up with our recent launch of the Timberland 25, a lightweight version of the boot, which is very small now, but it's resonating well in its early weeks in our stores.

A step further away from the boot, we're building our growing business around boat shoes. These sales are growing very strongly in all regions as we diversify the product lineup and give the brand more versatility of fire power during the warmer seasons. Timberland's adoption of a social-first marketing strategy has been instrumental in driving brand heat globally. During the quarter, the brand launched its Advice of an Icon campaign with high visibility events in New York, London, Shanghai and Tokyo. Brand interest grew during the summer months with consumer search interest positive in key markets in the U.S. and in EMEA.

The opportunity in Timberland is really significant because we can continue to grow the boot, we can grow in other footwear franchises and we can unlock apparel around the world, all at the same time. And in the U.S., especially, this will be supported by expanded and enhanced distribution. We have the game plan to do that now.

Altra accelerated further with revenue up over 35% versus last year, the third consecutive quarter of strong double-digit growth for the brand. Key franchises that represent a mix of road running and trail running styles show our broad-based approach to building this brand. The growth opportunity for Altra across both road and trail is significant. We're fueling this growth and driving higher brand awareness with targeted marketing investments, which, as a reminder, our awareness is less than 10% in the U.S. and even lower in other regions. Let me repeat that. Our brand awareness in the U.S. is less than 10%, yet we still have this size business, and it's growing fast. This is helping e-commerce deliver particularly strong growth, driven by higher traffic and stronger conversion.

Altra is on track to exceed $250 million in revenue this year, and I'm confident the brand has a long, strong runway for growth for many years to come. Let's turn to Vans. Performance was a little better this quarter with revenue down 11% versus last year. We're really focused on getting the commercial moments right as we upgrade our portfolio of products.

I told you that Sun's impact on product to be visible in the back-to-school period, and it is. Product newness across footwear is drawing in new consumers, particularly women, but also youth and kids. In terms of new styles, non-icons are up in the quarter, driven by the Super Lowpro, which continues to perform well. The new skate loafer, which I decided to show you this one because I bet many of you haven't seen it, which had a very strong debut and is sold out in most sizes and the Crosspath XC, which has had a very strong launch.

Within existing styles and icons, we're also beginning to realize the impact of elevation, innovation and newness. For example, the Authentic is up globally as a franchise, helped by the halo effect of the Valentino collab, which drove positive search trends in key markets. Within the Old Skool franchise, newness has driven higher sales of women's styles. And just last week at ComplexCon, the largest event for young shoe dogs in the world, I think, mostly guys, by the way, it's in Las Vegas. In that event, Vans had one of the longest, if not the longest line of people waiting for the Pearlized Old Skool shoe we launched there. This is just the start. More newness is coming as we head into holiday and into spring of 2026.

In the meantime, our shift in marketing strategy is starting to yield results. Digital traffic trends improved in the Americas and EMEA, particularly during relevant consumer moments like back-to-school, when digital traffic was up in the Americas. And looking ahead, we're excited about the recently announced new partnership with SZA as the brand's first-ever artistic director. It's early days, but in coming season, she'll add her voice and her touch to product and marketing.

To wrap it up on Vans, each quarter, we're making great progress. We took actions to clean up the marketplace and set the stage for a very exciting product pipeline that started to roll in and is delivering early results. I'm as confident as ever in Sun and her team leading us to return to growth at Vans.

Looking ahead, we're making progress on the turnaround of V.F., and I'm super confident in our ability to deliver both our near-term and our medium-term targets. Our teams are energized for the upcoming holiday season.

I'll now hand it over to Paul, who will dive in deeper into the numbers. Paul?

Paul Vogel
EVP & CFO

Great. Thanks, Bracken. Let me first by building on Bracken's comments about Dickies. As he mentioned, this is just a great opportunity for the company. While we are big fans of Dickies, we believe this divestiture will help further accelerate the transformation of V.F. back to being a growth company while also further enabling us to pay down our debt. We believe this will create increased and faster shareholder value.

Dickies is a great asset, and we know the work we have done to date sets the brand up for a return to profitable growth. In fact, it is the work we've put in that has created an environment for others to be interested in the asset. With that in mind, the offer we received of $600 million is incredibly attractive. Based on fiscal '26 estimates, this equates to an EV to sales multiple of 1.2x and an EV-to-EBITDA multiple of over 20x.

Going a little deeper into the transaction, we will incur deal-related expenses as well as the small tax considerations, but we will also save on future planned capital expenditures as well as see a reduction in our net interest expense. After considering all of these moving parts, we expect the overall cash benefit to V.F. to be greater than $600 million.

Importantly, the Dickies sale will help us strengthen the balance sheet and bring us closer towards our medium-term leverage targets. It will also help us focus time, energy and resources on our brands as we continue to make progress towards a return to growth.

Now let's turn to the review of the second quarter. We are pleased with our results in the second quarter. Revenue finished slightly ahead of our guidance, while our operating profit outperformed nicely. Back-to-school was encouraging across our key brands. Q2 revenue was $2.8 billion, up 2% on a reported basis. On a constant dollar basis, revenue was down 1% year-over-year, a little bit better than our guidance.

By brand, the North Face grew 4%, led by growth in both DTC and wholesale. Vans revenue in the quarter was down 11%, a little better than we expected, but still reflecting the impact of channel rationalization actions, which accounted for more than 20% of the reported decline. And finally, Timberland continued to see good momentum with revenue up 4%, reflecting growth across all channels, in particular, DTC.

By region, the Americas region was down 1%, EMEA region was flat and APAC was down 2%. And lastly, by channel, DTC was down 2%, while wholesale was flat. Our adjusted gross margin for the quarter was flat versus last year as the benefit from fewer discounts was offset by FX headwinds. There is minimal impact in our P&L from tariffs in the quarter. Our gross profit dollars were higher than expected on the back of revenue coming in ahead of guidance.

SG&A dollars were up 1% year-over-year, but are down 1% in constant dollars. In the quarter, we increased back-to-school marketing year-on-year, which was mostly offset by cost savings across the business. Overall, SG&A was a little bit lower than expected. Our adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 11.8%, up 40 basis points year-over-year. And both interest and tax were up versus last year as per guidance.

And finally, our adjusted earnings per share was $0.52 versus $0.60 in Q2 of last year. Now moving on to the balance sheet. Inventories were down 4% or $86 million at the end of the quarter, excluding Dickies from both periods. Excluding the impact of FX, inventories were down 5%. Overall levels are down year-on-year as we continue to improve the quality of our inventories.

Free cash flow through Q2 was negative $453 million, in line with our expectations for the year. And as a reminder, given the seasonality and working capital needs of our business, we typically start generating cash in Q3. It is also worth highlighting that first half cash flow includes the payments of roughly $60 million of incremental tariffs in addition to the usual seasonal increase in inventory at this time of year.

Overall, we are right where we expected to be for free cash flow. Net debt, including lease liabilities, was down $1.5 billion versus last year or down 27%. Turning to the outlook for the third quarter. Now note, this excludes Dickies in both this year and last year. We expect Q3 revenue to be down 1% to down 3% on a constant dollar basis. We are well positioned across our brands heading into the peak holiday period.

Moving down the P&L. We expect Q3 operating income to be in the range of $275 million to $305 million. For reference, last year, Dickies adjusted operating income was approximately $5 million in Q3. Gross margin will be down versus last year, reflecting the initial impacts from tariffs, which are partially offset from lower discounts. While we have taken some initial pricing actions, the majority of these will be reflected starting in Q4.

Reported SG&A dollars are expected to be slightly up versus last year. However, on a constant dollar basis, SG&A is expected to be broadly flat versus last year. Finally, we expect Q3 interest of approximately $40 million and an effective tax expense that is approximately double the prior year. This is in line with my recent comments about the increasing trend in our tax rate over the next 1 to 2 years and quarterly fluctuations as a result of the changes in global tax rates and in our geographical mix. As a reminder, this higher tax rate will have minimal impact on cash taxes.

Now moving to fiscal '26, we continue to see operating income up versus last year for the year as a whole, inclusive of all known anticipated tariffs. And second, on cash flow, we continue to expect operating cash flow and free cash flow, excluding the sale of noncore assets to be up year-on-year. This includes all expected tariffs and after the negative impact from the sale of Dickies, which we estimate to be $35 million.

As I said last quarter, we are working on a number of initiatives that are expected to improve our free cash flow throughout the year, which gives me confidence we will achieve our guidance. And last, we are progressing towards our medium-term targets of $500 million to $600 million of operating income expansion in fiscal '28 and a leverage ratio of 2.5x or below by fiscal '28 that we introduced a year ago.

Overall, we've made meaningful progress on simplifying work to unlock creativity, building deep functional capabilities and resetting the culture across the organization. We are confident we will achieve our targets.

So in summary, this quarter marks another quarter of meaningful progress. The year and our turnaround are progressing according to plan. While we acknowledge the greater uncertainty in some of our markets as we head into our peak trading period, we are confident in our strategy and ability to execute in any environment. We remain focused on getting each of our brands back to sustainable and profitable growth and continuing to make progress towards our medium-term goals. I will now hand it back to the operator to take your questions.