Viking Holdings Ltd (VIK) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 19, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Carola Mengolini - Vice President of Investor Relations
Torstein Hagen - Founder, Chairman & CEO
Leah Talactac - President & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Steven Wieczynski - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
James Hardiman - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Stephen Grambling - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Elizabeth Dove - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Raymond Bowers - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Tom, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Viking's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. As a reminder, this call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the program to your host for today's conference, Vice President of Investor Relations, Carola Mengolini.

Carola Mengolini
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Viking's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. I am joined by Tor Hagen, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Leah Talactac, President and Chief Financial Officer. Also available during the Q&A session is Linh Banh, Executive Vice President of Finance. Before we get started, please note our cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information.

During the call, management may discuss information that is forward-looking and involves known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results to be different than those expressed or implied. Please evaluate the forward-looking information in the context of these factors, which are detailed in today's press release as well as in our filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements are as of today, and we assume no obligation to update or supplement these statements.

We may also refer to certain non-IFRS financial metrics, which are reconciled and described in our press release posted on our Investor Relations website at ir.viking.com. Tor and Leah will begin today's call with a strategic overview of the business, including a recap of our third quarter results and an update of the current booking environment. Following their remarks, we will open the call for your questions. To supplement today's discussion, an earnings presentation is available on our Investor Relations website. With that, I'm pleased to turn the call over to Tor.

Torstein Hagen
Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Carola, and good morning, everyone. This was a great and memorable quarter with very good financial results, a strong booking environment and highlighted by a significant operational milestone. Starting on Slide 3, you can see that in the third quarter, net yield increased 7.1% year-over-year. Leah will provide more detail shortly, but I want to highlight that our consolidated net yield this quarter was $617, the highest in Viking's history. Turning to the overall booking environment.

We continue to see strong momentum. As of November 2, 2025, and for our core products, 96% of our 2025 capacity was sold when 70% of our 2026 capacity was already booked too. I believe that this reflects the strength of the Viking brand, the resilience of our target customers and the appeal of our destination-focused products. As we continue to grow our fleet, this forward visibility gives us confidence in our trajectory and in our ability to deliver long-term value to all stakeholders.

I also believe that our well-defined product and clear focus on our customer base have enabled us to build a robust travel platform and support a steady fleet expansion. This has also allowed us to extend the brand into new destinations that further strengthen our guest loyalty. Our guests value and understand Viking. We do not try to be everything to everyone. We focus on the destination and on cultural enrichment while providing an intimate elegant atmosphere on board.

Now if you look at the next slide, #4, you can see how this strategy has brought us to a remarkable milestone. We started Viking 28 years ago with 4 river vessels. And today, we have a fleet of more than 100 ships, 103 to be exact. I believe that this growth reflects both disciplined execution and an innovative approach. First, we have been modernizing river voyages. In addition, we have been reinventing Ocean Voyages and perfecting the expedition experience.

Each of these products is approached with the same philosophy of thoughtful design, cultural depth and operational discipline. We have been modernizing river voyages by transforming what River Cruising can be. We have introduced new elegant and efficient ships with immersive itineraries that bring guests closer to the art, history, and culture of every destination.

Today, River Cruising has become a globally recognized way of travel and Viking with a fleet of 89 river vessels offer the most extensive and enriching collection of river itineraries across the world. We have also been reinventing ocean by bringing the same vision that is modernizing the River Cruising. We are redefining what an Ocean Voyage can be, introducing new small, elegant ships designed not for entertainment, but for enrichment. At Viking, we said that we are for the thinking first.

True to that promise, our ocean itineraries with a fleet of 12 ships focus on cultural discovery and meaningful experiences, bring our guests closer to the world's most inspiring destinations. And lastly, we have been perfecting the expedition experience. With purpose-built ships, we enable our guests to explore the most remote regions of the planet from Antarctica to the Arctic and also closer to home on North America's great lakes.

These itineraries are designed with safety and comfort at the core by placing science, exploration and sustainability at the heart of every journey. In doing so, we are creating a new category of travel, one that feels less like tourism and more like meaningful discovery. This innovative approach is also reflected in the extraordinary breadth of our offerings. As shown on Slide 5, we are currently providing itineraries that cumulatively span more than 85 countries across all 7 continents, all 5 oceans, 21 rivers and 5 lakes calling on over 500 ports.

Looking ahead, we remain committed to setting the standard in experiential travel, offering opportunities to explore the world in ways that are comfortable, cultural enriching and environmentally responsible. As we reflect on this milestone, achieving a fleet of 100 vessels, let me turn to one of our key advantages that have helped fuel the growth in the river segment, which is the docking locations. On Slide 6, you will see how these set Viking apart.

Our river vessels dock in the hearts of cities and towns, near historical and cultural attractions. They provide our guests with more time ashore to enjoy the local culture. Today, we control or have priority access to 113 of the most coveted docking locations in various regions of the world. This includes premier locations in Paris, just 800 meters from the Eiffel Tower and in Luxor, close to the Karnak Temple. This unique access not only enhances the guest experience but also reinforces Viking's leadership position in the River Cruising.

Now to conclude this section, I will share some great news about how our product is being recognized across the industry. On Slide 7, you can see that Viking has once again been rated #1 for oceans and #1 for Rivers by Conde Nast Traveler, now for the fifth consecutive year in the 2025 Readers' Choice Awards. We were also honored as a World's Best by Travel + Leisure in the 2025 World's Best Awards. No other travel company has simultaneously received such honors across these product lines from both publications.

What makes these awards especially meaningful is that they are voted on by the guests, reinforcing that our distinct approach resonates with those who value meaningful travel. They also reflect the dedication of our entire team, whose commitment ensures that every voyage lives up to the Viking's name. By staying true to our principles, small ships, destination-focused itineraries, and exceptional service, we have been able to lead without compromise. And as we look ahead, we remain committed to maintaining the standards that have earned us [indiscernible]. With that, I will turn to Leah to discuss our financials.

Leah Talactac
President & CFO

Thank you, Tor, and good morning, everyone. I will start by reviewing our third quarter results, which were very good and will also mention a few records worth highlighting. On a consolidated basis, capacity grew 11% and net yields rose 7.1%, resulting in a 21.4% increase in adjusted gross margin year-over-year. As Tor noted, net yields were $617 this quarter, the highest in Viking's history. As expected, vessel expenses, excluding fuel per capacity PCD increased 9.6% year-over-year.

Consistent with what we shared last quarter, the year-over-year increase was driven by several factors. These included changes in our itinerary mix, which led to higher expenses such as port charges as well as slightly higher repair and maintenance costs compared to the prior years. Repairs and maintenance costs occur when specific work is required on our vessels and the timing can shift depending on operational needs.

As a result, the cadence of these expenses may differ from one period to the next and is not always a like-for-like comparison. I will note that with a larger fleet and a different mix of itineraries, both capacity and net yields increased more than offsetting expected cost increases. Regarding SG&A, expenses remained flat as a percentage of adjusted gross margin when compared to same time last year.

Following the year-over-year step-up in expenses during the second quarter, we continue to invest in our teams, including through stock-based compensation to support long-term growth. As it relates to overall expenses, we remain firmly committed to disciplined cost management, while at the same time, retaining our talent, supporting our expanding capacity and stimulating demand.

We believe that this balanced approach ensures we are not only managing today's environment responsibly but also laying the foundation for Viking's sustained growth and long-term success. Having said this, we are proud to report the highest quarterly adjusted EBITDA in our company's history at $704 million, up 26.9% year-over-year, while also reaching one of the highest adjusted EBITDA margins at 52.8%. As we have shared before, capacity growth, coupled with yield growth translates into strong EBITDA improvement and margin expansion.

In summary, you can see that this quarter, we achieved the highest net yield in Viking's history and the highest adjusted EBITDA. We believe that these great results underscore the strength of our business model, the resilience of the demand across our portfolio and the discipline of our execution as we continue to deliver profitable growth. Now moving to net income. This was $514 million, an improvement of almost $135 million when compared to the same period in 2024.

I will note that the net income for the third quarter of 2024 includes a loss of $18.6 million from the revaluation of warrants issued by the company due to stock price appreciation. While this quarter in 2025, we recorded nonrecurring charges of $19.7 million in connection with debt refinancing, which are included in interest expense. Adjusted EPS was $1.20 for the third quarter, up 33.2% year-over-year.

Now before moving to our reportable segments, which are on Slide 10, I would like to highlight that year-to-date, our consolidated adjusted gross margin increased 21% year-over-year to $3.2 billion, and our net yield is 7.4% higher than in the same period last year. Now I will briefly discuss our 2 reportable segments, river and ocean. Unless noted, I will be referring to year-to-date metrics or 9 months ended September 30, 2025.

In the river segment, capacity PCDs increased 5.2% year-over-year, mainly driven by the addition of 4 new ships, 2 for Egypt delivered in 2024 and 2 for Europe delivered this year. Occupancy for the period was 96% and adjusted gross margin increased 14.3% year-over-year to $1.4 billion. As a result, net yield was $589, up 7.8% year-over-year, driven by strong demand for both our Egypt and European itineraries.

For ocean, capacity PCDs increased 15.3% year-over-year, mainly due to the addition of the Viking Vela in December of 2024 and the Viking Vesta in June of 2025. Occupancy for the period was 95.4%. Adjusted gross margin increased 28.5% year-over-year to $1.5 billion, while net yield increased 10.9% to $591. Now moving to the balance sheet. On Slide 11, you can see that as of September 30, 2025, we had total cash and cash equivalents of $3 billion.

Our net debt was $2.8 billion, and our net leverage ratio was 1.6x, an improvement compared to the 2.1x shared last quarter. Also on Slide 11, we show our bond maturity outlook. In October of 2025, we issued $1.7 billion of senior unsecured notes due 2033. The net proceeds were used to fully redeem all outstanding senior unsecured notes due 2027 and to repay finance leases on 2 ocean ships and 1 expedition ship, with the balance designed to repay the finance lease on an additional ocean ship.

To this end, bond maturities are now due 2028 and beyond. Since our last earnings release, we have also realized additional financial achievements. Moody's upgraded Viking to Ba2 from Ba3, and we upsized our revolving credit facility to $1 billion. We believe that all these actions underscore our consistent performance, strengthen Viking's capital structure and enhance our financial flexibility to pursue long-term growth.

From a committed capital expenditure perspective and for the full year 2025, the total expected committed ship CapEx is about $910 million or $480 million net of financing. And for the full year 2026, the total expected committed ship CapEx is about $1.2 billion or $320 million net of financing. With that, I'll turn it back to Tor to review our business outlook, including our booking curves.

Torstein Hagen
Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thanks, Leah. Let's now talk about the booking curves, which are all as of November 2, 2025. On Slide 13, we show our consolidated metrics for our core products. As you can see, we continue to be in very good shape for both 2025 and the 2026 seasons. For 2025, 96% of our capacity PCDs for our core products is already booked. Advanced bookings equaled $5.6 billion, which is 21% higher than the 2024 season at the same point in time, while the capacity has increased by 12%.

Because our 2025 capacity is mostly sold out, these metrics are very similar to what we shared last quarter. I will note that as we approach the end of the calendar year, we might experience a few cancellations, which is normal. Now moving to 2026, we are in a very good position there, too. The capacity for our core products is increasing by 9%, and we are already 70% booked with $4.9 billion of advanced bookings. These are 14% higher than the 2025 season at the same point in time for 2024.

I'll talk about the advanced booking curves for the segments. On the next slide, you will see the curves for Ocean Cruises. This is Slide 14. I'll begin with the blue line, which represents bookings for 2025. Overall, we have sold 95% of the capacity PCDs for the year, which is an increase of 18%. Advanced bookings are 29% higher than they were at the same point last year, and rates have remained very strong, equal to $717 compared to $661 last year. Now if you look at the yellow line, you will see the booking trend for the 2026 season.

As you can see, we are in very good shape. Ocean capacity is projected to increase by 9% in 2026 and approximately 77% of the capacity has already been sold. This equals to about $2.4 billion in advanced bookings at average rates of $783 compared to $749 at the same point for the 2025 season. If we move to Slide 15, you will see the curves for the River Cruises. I will start with the blue line, which graphs the advanced bookings for 2025.

Like oceans, we are also having a great year in river, 96% of the 2025 capacity is already sold, which is an increase of 6% year-over-year. Advanced bookings are 16% higher than last year at this point in time and rates equaled $820 compared to $758 last year. Like ocean, we have very little to sell for the '25 season, and our teams are now focused on 2026 and beyond. Now looking at the yellow line, these are the advanced bookings for the 2026 season.

As you can see, we have sold $2.2 billion in advanced bookings, representing 62% of our capacity. The river operating capacity is expected to grow 10% year-over-year, a figure slightly higher than the last quarter due to some tender adjustments. These are good trends for the 2026 river, which builds on top of a steep 2025 curve. The rates equal to $920 compared to $853 in 2025.

So overall, advanced bookings for our core products are doing very well. They are either in line with or exceeding some of our expectations. Moreover, average rates for the 2026 season have increased. These are currently 5.5% higher than the 2025 season at the same point in time, alongside a 9% increase in capacity. To this end, we are very pleased with how the curves are trending. Now Leah will add some color to our order book and capacity.

Leah Talactac
President & CFO

Thank you, Tor. Our order book chart, which is on Slide 16, has been updated to reflect the following: the successful delivery of 4 river vessels and the addition of option agreements for 8 additional river vessels, which, if exercised, will result in 4 deliveries in 2031 and 4 more in 2032.

You can see that we continue to prioritize expanding capacity to meet growing demand. At Viking, we believe that by staying focused on delivering meaningful experiences, we will continue to drive strong earnings growth, expand margins and sustain long-term financial performance. With this, I conclude our prepared remarks. I'll now turn it back to the operator to take questions.