Vodafone Group Public Limited Company (VOD) Q2 2026 Earnings Call November 11, 2025 5:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Margherita Della Valle - Group Chief Executive & Executive Director
Luka Mucic - Group CFO & Executive Director

Conference Call Participants

Maurice Patrick - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Akhil Dattani - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Carl Murdock-Smith - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Polo Tang - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Emmet Kelly - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Joshua Mills - BNP Paribas, Research Division
David Wright - BofA Securities, Research Division
James Ratzer - New Street Research LLP
Paul Sidney - Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG, Research Division
Robert Grindle - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division

Presentation

Margherita Della Valle
Group Chief Executive & Executive Director

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Before moving to Q&A, I will briefly provide an update on our transformation progress and financial performance. I want to specifically talk you through our operational execution in the first half in Germany and the U.K. In Germany, our turnaround continues. And in the U.K., we are now driving the integration of Vodafone and Three, both of which remain top priorities. But first, a quick recap on our position as a group.

As you know, over the past 2.5 years, we have changed both where we operate and how we operate. In the last 6 months, we have completed the reshaping of the group that I announced in May '23. We have completed the merger of Vodafone and Three in the U.K. and the acquisition of Telekom Romania's assets. All of Vodafone's operations are now in a strong position, at scale in all our markets. And importantly, all these markets have sustainable structures.

Our capital structure has also been reset with appropriate investment levels, a stronger balance sheet and over EUR 5 billion returned to shareholders via buybacks and dividends over the last 18 months, with a further EUR 1 billion of buybacks to come over the next 6 months. But most importantly, we have also delivered a step change in our operational transformation. Whilst we still have more to do in our drive to operational excellence, we have boosted customer satisfaction, we have simplified our operations and powered growth beyond traditional connectivity by expanding our digital and financial services.

Now, mentioning growth leads me on well to our financial results. We performed well in the first half, in line with our expectations. Our group service revenue growth has accelerated to 5.8% in Q2, supported by growth across Europe and Africa. On the profitability front, group EBITDAaL grew by 6.8% in the first half, with nearly all our markets posting EBITDAaL growth. With this solid performance across the group and a positive outlook, we have confirmed today that we now expect to close the year at the upper end of the growth guidance that we set out in May.

Alongside solid financial results, we have also made good operational progress in Germany and the U.K. Our 2 largest markets have different starting points and different competitive landscapes, but both markets are demonstrating the impact of our strategic priorities, customer, simplicity and growth.

Taking it to market in turn. Germany is the largest telecom market in Europe, and we operate at scale across both mobile and fixed. In mobile, our 5G stand-alone network covers over 90% of the population, and now, serves over 40 million customers, including 1&1 as well as almost 60 million IoT SIMs. And on fixed broadband, we can offer gigabit connectivity to 3 out of 4 German households, more than any other operator in the country. Our gigabit broadband reach has indeed continued to expand during the quarter. We are now marketing OXG fiber to 1 million homes. Our brand is strong, and customer satisfaction in Germany has stepped up in the last 2 years.

We have simplified customer journeys. We have introduced GenAI in customer care across chatbots and agent assistance. And our improvements across all call center KPIs are being recognized by independent testers. And in terms of growth, we have followed a disciplined execution focused on value. We have introduced new propositions in mobile, driving differentiation and upselling, and we have continued to increase front book ARPUs in fixed.

We also continue to expand our capabilities to satisfy the growing demand for digital services. Just 2 weeks ago, we announced the acquisition of an established cloud service specialist, active across Germany and Europe.

Looking at Germany as a whole, we are well positioned to drive structural growth, as we have the right assets and the right team in place, a team that is fully focused on becoming the market leader in customer experience, a one-stop shop provider for fixed, mobile and TV and a trusted B2B partner of choice.

And now, on to the U.K., we are the largest mobile operator in the country, serving almost 30 million mobile customers, and we are also the fastest-growing broadband provider, with the largest gigabit footprint of any operator just like in Germany, as we are able to sell fiber to about 22 million U.K. households.

Vodafone U.K. is already the market leader in customer satisfaction, and we are now extending our customer experience standards to Three customers. And all of our customers are set to benefit from our GBP 11 billion network investment, as we build the best-in-class 5G network for the U.K. We have made a very fast start. Independent tests are already confirming noticeably better speeds and coverage in less than 6 months.

In terms of growth, as you know, we have good commercial momentum in the U.K., which is now being supported by our cross-selling opportunities, with Vodafone broadband offers now open to Three customers and FWA open to Vodafone customers. And our multi-brand approach is proving effective in making the most of the market demand opportunities.

The combination of these revenue synergies with our GBP 700 million cost and CapEx synergies gives us a strong growth trajectory in the U.K. We will leverage our unique assets in the market to extend our customer experience leadership, monetize our improved mobile network quality and continue to drive fixed service growth. And this is just our 2 largest markets.

We hold leadership positions across our African markets, where yesterday, the team reported another strong set of results, in line with their medium-term double-digit EBITDAaL growth guidance. We are excited about the future in Africa, as it combines structural opportunities across all our services, from core connectivity to financial services to B2B.

Coming back to group in closing, our objectives continue to be the same, to improve our customer experience across our markets, further simplify our business and deliver sustainable cash flow growth in FY '26 and beyond. The turnaround of Germany, the U.K. integration and our strong positions in growing markets across Europe and Africa, all give me confidence in our growth outlook.

With the reshaping of the group behind us, now is the right time to deliver on our ambition to grow our dividend over time. We announced today that we are moving to a progressive dividend policy.

And now Luka and I are looking forward to your questions.