Victoria's Secret & Co. (VSCO) Q3 2025 Earnings Call December 5, 2025 8:30 AM EST


Company Participants

Priya Trivedi
Hillary Super - CEO & Director
Scott Sekella - Chief Financial and Operating Officer


Conference Call Participants

Mauricio Serna Vega - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brooke Roach - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Adrienne Yih - Barclays PLC
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Dana Telsey - Telsey Advisory Group LLC
Jungwon Kim - TD Cowen, Research Division
Marni Shapiro - The Retail Tracker
Irwin Boruchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division


Presentation


Operator

Good morning. My name is Amanda, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Victoria's Secret & Co.'s Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to Priya Trivedi, Senior Vice President and Global Head of Investor Relations and Treasury at Victoria's Secret & Co. Priya, you may begin.


Priya Trivedi

Good morning, and welcome to Victoria's Secret & Co.'s Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call for the period ended November 1, 2025. I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to our safe harbor statement found in our SEC filings and in our press releases.

Joining me on the call today is Chief Executive Officer, Hillary Super; and Chief Financial and Operating Officer, Scott Sekella. We are available today for approximately 30 minutes to answer any questions.

Certain results we discuss on the call today are adjusted results and exclude the impact of certain items described in our press releases and in our SEC filings. Reconciliations of these and other non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in our press release, our SEC filings and in the investor presentation posted on the Investors section of our website.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Hillary.


Hillary Super
CEO & Director

Thanks, Priya. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I am pleased to share that we delivered standout third quarter results with outperformance on the top and bottom lines that far exceeded the high end of our guidance. These outstanding results reflect what we can achieve as we advance our Path to Potential strategy, which is built around four pillars: supercharging our Bra Authority, recommitting to PINK, fueling growth in Beauty and evolving our brand projection and go-to-market strategy.

This is the first quarter that our new leadership team has been fully on board, and their impact is clear. When the implementation of our strategy is aligned and working in concert, it creates a powerful multiplier effect, accelerating global growth, elevating the distinctiveness of our brands and unlocking greater value across our ecosystem to drive sustained shareholder returns.

A great example of this multiplier effect was the iconic Victoria's Secret Fashion Show. Brand-right product, a major upper funnel moment and digital and social amplification came together, propelling us into the cultural conversation, ultimately driving mind share, customer share and market share. This translated into tangible business impact, particularly in our intimates business.

In the quarter, our intimates business returned to growth, up mid-single digits, resulting in us gaining over 1% share in the U.S. intimates market. Additionally, a big unlock for the quarter was customer acquisition. Before I arrived, there was not enough focus here. And as a result, our active customer base was shrinking. We have made reversing that trend a priority. For the first time this year, our total customer file grew and, importantly, we saw growth coming from an increase in new customers.

Now let's walk through the third quarter results. We delivered net sales of $1.47 billion, an increase of 9% versus last year with robust adjusted gross margin expansion of 170 basis points and earnings growth of 45%. This was driven by growth across Victoria's Secret, PINK and Beauty and underpinned by broad-based outperformance across channels and geographies. Our international business continues to grow at an accelerated pace with Q3 marking our third consecutive quarter of double-digit retail sales growth. Sales were up over 30% during the quarter driven by exceptional performance in China, primarily in the digital channel.

In late October, we saw a strong start to the 11.11 Singles' Day selling period. These results continue to affirm our brand's global appeal and International's role as a growth engine. With Black Friday and Cyber Monday behind us, our fourth quarter is off to a strong start. We saw our highest Black Friday customer turnout since our spinoff with roughly 1 million customers shopping our brands in North America, up high single digits from last year, and a strong engagement from new customers.

Building on our third quarter outperformance and the momentum of the fourth quarter, we are raising our outlook for the year. With the strength of two iconic brands and a thoughtfully curated product assortment, amplified by our merchandising and marketing strategies, we are well positioned to deliver a strong holiday season and a solid finish to fiscal 2025.

Now let's turn to a signature brand moment for us as the world's leading intimates brand, the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show, which celebrated the new era of sexy, masterfully blended pop culture with storytelling. It was a full force celebration of our community, brought to life by a dynamic lineup of global music artists including Madison Beer, Karol G, TWICE and Missy Elliott, alongside iconic runway talent and fresh faces. PINK's moment in the spotlight sparked tremendous excitement, amplifying the impact of the entire event and elevating the experience for fans around the world.

The show once again became a cultural phenomenon. In the 4 weeks following the show, streaming views reached approximately 61 million, up over 60% versus last year. We gained nearly 9 million new social followers and total media impressions hit $51 billion, an increase of over 30% versus last year. On show day alone, the event dominated fashion media with over 42 billion impressions, while traffic to our site surged over 60% year-over-year, converting over 15% more new customers.

Post show, Victoria's Secret kept the cultural spotlight, converting the buzz into measurable business results as engagement soared across search volume, click-through rates, positive sentiment and brand desire. The Fashion Show delivered strong commercial impact, significantly exceeding both last year's results and our expectations. The halo from the show is evident across our business, from the increased demand for sexy and glamorous bras and related lifestyle collections to renewed traction for iconic VS brand codes. Shoppable product linked to the event doubled year-over-year with several key styles selling out.

We also launched our holiday collection alongside the show, which started strong in the third quarter and continues to perform well. The show serves as a powerful customer acquisition engine. We saw double-digit growth in new and reactivated customers following the event, with particularly strong traction among the 18- to 34-year age group. The show remains an unrivaled cultural event fueling growth, brand love and engagement while reinforcing our leadership in the global intimates market.

This year's fashion show was a defining moment, allowing us to show the world how we've evolved into our new era of sexy. In this era, beauty is no longer a singular standard. It's on her own terms, a conscious liberating choice. Some of the shift is subtle. It's in the tone, the gaze, the feeling. And some of it is unmistakable, more diverse bodies and ages, a fuller spectrum that's joyful at its core and an expanded product assortment that empowers her to feel exactly how she wants.

Our role isn't to dictate or to define. It's to meet women where they are, to inspire them, listen to them and reflect the many ways they show up today.

Now let's review the meaningful progress we made in the third quarter across each pillar of our Path to Potential strategy. Turning to our first strategic pillar, supercharging our bra authority. Bras are the heart of our business, and we are a market leader in the bra category. We want to reinforce our position as her #1 destination for all bras because when we win in bras, it creates a halo effect across our entire brand. Our bra customer is among our most valuable and loyal. She spends more, visits us more frequently and shops additional categories, reinforcing her connection with us.

To achieve this, we are delivering market-leading innovation with style and fashion that solves real lifestyle needs. We are educating with authority to showcase our expertise. We are amplifying our digital marketing voice through a social-first approach to attract new customers and grow the value of existing ones. And we are elevating the experience with profiting experts in top stores and creating emotional connected digital experiences. These actions position us to unlock significant growth and deepen loyalty through an exceptional bra experience.

The third quarter showcased our ability to win across the bra lifestyle spectrum with a frequent drumbeat of fashion in innovation complemented by sharp messaging. The Body by Victoria FlexFactor bra with the tagline, Better than Braless, delivered casual comfort and innovation and has quickly become one of our top styles, driving incremental growth. Ahead of our Fashion Show, we activated a sophisticated campaign for the Very Sexy franchise, which delivered impressive results. Finally, in Sport, we expanded our range of support levels, reinforcing our authority in sports bras across all wearing occasions.

In North America, our Victoria's Secret bra business delivered a mid-single-digit increase in the third quarter, signaling a strong return to growth in the category. Performance was steady throughout the quarter across our bra offering from casual to sexy and glamor, with the latter accelerating with the heightened interest around the Fashion Show. As a result, we grew our share of the U.S. bra market by low single digits, a nice acceleration from last quarter. By connecting emotionally with the customer, we've been able to increase regular price selling, pull back on promotions and execute select strategic price increases all while growing the bra base business.

As our bra category accelerated, so did the rest of Victoria's Secret brand. For the fourth quarter, we've been very pleased with the response to our intimates collection thus far, and momentum continues to build. The VS Lifestyle extends into sexy and casual sleepwear and gift sets, a key gifting category for the quarter. Then as we transition into post holiday, we are excited to unveil a fresh Valentine's Day assortment designed to keep our customer engaged and inspired.

The Victoria's Secret brand proposition of sexy, glamorous and luxurious is clearly resonating. The customer is responding, returning and reengaging with the brand. As we continue to innovate, deliver differentiated product and communicate in compelling ways, we are not just succeeding, we are gaining share.

Our next pillar is recommitting to PINK. PINK has long been an iconic, immediately recognizable and beloved brand. We are focused on returning PINK to its roots as a lifestyle brand designed for 18 to 24 year olds, a segment we pioneered and once dominated. That means reestablishing PINK's identity as digitally first and socially driven while staying true to its DNA: bold, playful and irreverent. This is at the heart of everything we do from product design to storytelling. By showing up in the moments that matter most to her and creating compelling products and experiences, we are building the emotional connections needed to win her loyalty for the long term.

PINK delivered an outstanding third quarter with double-digit sales growth accelerating from the second quarter. As we increase our apparel penetration, we are delivering frequent fashion to create a steady drumbeat of newness. We showed up in key moments like back-to-school, Game Day and Halloween, supported by culturally relevant and entertainment-led digital and social content. A record-breaking LoveShackFancy collaboration and PINKs included in the Fashion Show also fueled awareness and connection.

Our LoveShackFancy collaboration was highly successful. We seized the launch on our social channels and hosted a pop-up event in New York City with media and influencers. At launch, traffic to our site soared and we logged our highest 5 minutes of digital volume ever. Importantly, this is all at regular price and incremental to the base PINK business. This buzz translated into authentic brand content that drove engagement across social channels. Nearly 15% of customers shopping this collaboration were new or reactivated.

PINK also took center stage at the Fashion Show with the K-pop sensation, TWICE, and a lineup of talent that appeals to Gen Z. This collaboration resonated with our target customer and reintroduced PINK to their highly engaged fanbases. The Wear Everywhere bra worn by TWICE sold out following the performance and related content on social media went viral, generating over 52 million views to date. PINK intimates also returned to growth, signaling positive momentum across the brand. This remarkable post show lift in PINK intimates reinforced a key insight. With the right innovation and brand experience, PINK intimates can unlock meaningful growth.

PINK has gotten off to a strong start in the fourth quarter. Earlier this week, we launched our second collaboration with LoveShackFancy. PINK is regaining its spark, and we are confident in our strategy to drive growth, deepen customer connection and the long-term brand value.

Our next pillar is fueling growth in Beauty, a powerhouse business nearing $1 billion in net sales in North America. Beauty is a high-frequency category and our beauty customer is our second most valuable in spend, yet only 40% of our customers purchase Beauty, which is a clear opportunity. To capture this, we are investing in talent to scale Victoria's Secret Beauty, build a differentiated offering for PINK Beauty and strengthen our innovation pipeline. We're putting innovation at the forefront while enhancing merchandising and speed-to-market capabilities to consistently deliver fresh, exciting products.

With a strong team in place, we see tremendous runway for growth in North America and internationally. In the third quarter, our Beauty business grew low single digits, building on last year's mid-teens increase. An important reason our business is thriving is because we listen and act. After last year's Fashion Show, customers asked for more glamor, so we delivered runway exclusives and the response was electric. This year, the customer buzz after the fashion show got even louder, and we are turning those insights into innovation for our upcoming product launches.

Scent is our secret weapon. It creates lifelong memories and a deep emotional connection with our brand. You see it with Bombshell, which is America's #1 fragrance. This quarter, we introduced the holiday addition of Bombshell and launched our first integrated lifestyle campaign for the Very Sexy franchise, bringing together intimates and the restaged fragrance, which drove solid growth.

For the fourth quarter, Beauty is a key gifting category. We have a full selection of fine fragrances, mists and beautifully packaged gift sets heading into the holiday season. We are investing in the future of this business to innovate and differentiate to capture market share across North America and internationally, where beauty is a key category.

Finally, evolving our brand projection and go-to-market pillar. We are creating a compelling shift in our market presence, more purposeful, more provocative and more aligned with who our customer is today. Our focus is on driving brand heat to reclaim mind share, which ultimately fuels market share and growth. Over the past year, we clarified our target customer for each brand's positioning. This clarity informs every decision, from product creation to how our brand shows up in the world, helping to reestablish our relevance and leadership position.

To capture mind share, we are continuing to fine-tune our marketing investments. This includes rightsizing direct mail spend to protect our most valuable customers while investing in digital and social marketing. We are leveraging owned channels that reach more than 145 million followers and expanding influencer campaigns, all with a sharp focus on acquiring new customers. We are delivering bold, entertainment-led creative content that is forging an emotional connection.

Our approach is working. The momentum in brand buzz and mind share gains are evident with the commercial success of our FlexFactor bra launch in late July, LoveShackFancy collaboration in early August and the ultimate cultural moment, our Fashion Show in mid-October. This strategic marketing shift, combined with our product initiatives, is also driving meaningful customer growth. In the third quarter, our total customer file grew low single digits, a significant improvement over the second quarter. We saw gains across all customer segments, new, reactivated and active with our new customers showing the biggest shift in trend.

Additionally, we saw nice increases in both the number of customers and average sales per customer across all income cohorts. Our gains in mind share and customer share are translating into market share. In the third quarter, despite the total U.S. intimates market declining, we grew our share of the market by over 1% driven by growth across our intimates business. This was our second consecutive quarter of gaining market share, reinforcing that our growth is not dependent on the category growing. It comes from creating desire, building brand heat and providing exceptional customer experiences.

Our brand projection and marketing efforts are delivering heightened awareness, deeper affinity and increased relevance. Victoria's Secret is now dominating the conversation and moving into the center of culture, converting buzz into measurable business impact and market share gains.

In closing, we delivered a standout third quarter with sales and earnings growth that positions us to raise our outlook for the year. We feel confident in our ability to execute but are being thoughtful about the consumer, particularly post holiday. We are heading into the holiday season with momentum and are well positioned to deliver a strong finish for the year. I would like to thank our incredible, talented and passionate teams for their tireless work in driving our transformation strategy forward and for delivering exceptional service to our customers every day.

When the implementation of our Path to Potential strategy is aligned and working in concert, it creates a powerful multiplier effect, unlocking greater value across our ecosystem. We are reinforcing our leadership in global intimates and beauty to drive sustained long-term profitable growth.

I will now turn it over to Scott to provide a financial overview of the quarter and our updated fiscal 2025 guidance. Scott?


Scott Sekella
Chief Financial and Operating Officer

Thanks, Hillary, and thank you, everyone, for joining today's call. Our third quarter results significantly exceeded expectations, building on the momentum from our strong first half of the year. This outperformance was broad-based and reflects continued progress on our Path to Potential strategy. We continue to focus on the fundamentals while prioritizing investments in product innovation, brand strength and customer experience. These investments are positioning us for long-term differentiation and success.

Now let's turn to our third quarter results in more detail. Net sales for the quarter were $1.472 billion, an increase of $125 million or 9% over last year with comparable sales growth of 8%, exceeding the high end of our guidance. These strong results built on last year's third quarter growth of 7%. As Hillary highlighted, these results reflect growth across all businesses: Victoria's Secret, PINK and Beauty. This momentum was supported by broad-based outperformance across channels and geographies, improved sales metrics including higher comp traffic and average order value and increased regular price selling. We saw solid growth leading into the fashion show and then an acceleration following the fashion show.

In North America, the Victoria’s Secret brand delivered a strong mid-single-digit increase in sales versus last year while PINK achieved a low double-digit sales increase. Traffic continued to outperform the mall driven by enhanced product offerings, our digital-first and socially centric marketing approach and haloed by the fashion show later in the quarter. AURs in the quarter were up 3% compared to last year. And excluding panties, which is a low AUR category, AURs increased 6%. As Hillary highlighted, customers also responded to the frequent drumbeat of newness in the quarter.

We were extremely pleased with our performance in intimates in the Victoria's Secret brand, where we saw major trend improvements from the first and second quarter across both bras and panties. Contributing to this improvement was strong demand and regular price selling through the quarter for our full assortment across casual to sexy and glamor bras, with the latter accelerating post fashion show. Additionally, PINK intimates returned to growth for the first time in years, a real positive trend shift and a key learning going forward.

For the quarter, we grew our market share in U.S. intimates by over 1% compared to last year, driven by increases in our bra business. Beauty again delivered top line growth with sales up low single digits over last year on top of the exceptional results in the third quarter of 2024.

Our international business also continued to perform exceptionally well during the quarter. Reported third quarter sales grew 34% to $265 million, reflecting an improvement over a strong second quarter. Approximately 6 points of this sales increase reflect a shift in the reporting of European digital sales, which were previously fulfilled from our U.S. distribution center and recorded in North America direct sales. They are now being fulfilled from our European distribution center as part of our ongoing efforts to enhance international operations and will be reported as part of our international sales.

International retail sales grew in the high teens during the quarter driven by exceptional performance in China, primarily in the digital channel. In late October, we also saw a strong start to the 11.11 Singles Day selling period. International results included low double-digit retail comparable sales gains across both stores and digital, combined with continued new store openings.

Third quarter adjusted gross margin dollars were $537 million with an adjusted gross margin rate of 36.5%, which was 170 basis points above last year and 250 basis points above our guidance. We've built a solid operational foundation, creating a business model that enables us to scale effectively and support the company's growth. This was evident in the significant leverage on our buying and occupancy expenses, which contributed nicely to margin expansion.

Additional favorable drivers versus last year included continued strength in regular price selling and a pullback in traditional promotions, resulting in lower discounting throughout the quarter. Altogether, these factors allowed us to more than offset approximately $15 million or 100 basis points in tariffs in the quarter. This operational foundation positions us well for long-term success.

Adjusted SG&A dollars were $537 million in the third quarter and our adjusted SG&A rate was 36.5%, which was 30 basis points better than our guidance and leveraging 30 basis points versus the prior year rate of 36.8%. Our better-than-expected adjusted SG&A rate in the quarter was driven by the sales beat, along with continued disciplined expense management across all aspects of the business. We did make additional strategic marketing investments in the quarter, where we saw positive ROAS opportunities.

Driven by the sales beat as well as the disciplined expense management, adjusted operating income for the third quarter was breakeven, which was better than our guidance of an adjusted operating loss of $35 million to $55 million. This result compares to last year's third quarter adjusted operating loss of $28 million. Adjusted nonoperating expenses, consisting principally of interest expense, were $18 million in the quarter, in line with our guidance and down from last year, driven by a lower level of weighted average borrowings and lower interest rates.

Our third quarter adjusted tax rate was 15%. And our adjusted net loss per share came in at $0.27, significantly better than our guidance of an adjusted net loss per diluted share of $0.55 to $0.75 and last year's adjusted net loss of $0.50 per share.

Turning to the balance sheet. Total inventories ended the third quarter up 7% compared to last year and in line with our guidance. From a liquidity standpoint, we ended the third quarter with a cash balance of $249 million, which is $88 million above last year. And our outstanding balance under our $750 million ABL credit facility was $375 million, which was down $65 million from last year. Since the end of the quarter, we have paid off approximately $165 million and expect to fully pay off the outstanding balance this quarter and end the year with full availability under the ABL. Our liquidity position is strong and provides us financial flexibility for continued execution of our strategic pillars.

Now let's turn to our updated outlook for fiscal year 2025. We are raising our full year outlook for net sales and are now forecasting net sales in the range of $6.45 billion to $6.48 billion compared to our prior guidance calling for net sales in the range of $6.33 billion to $6.41 billion. This compares to net sales of $6.23 billion in fiscal 2024 or approximately $6.204 billion excluding the previously disclosed benefit of the approximately $26 million cumulative adjustment related to the gift card breakage change an accounting estimate recognized in the fourth quarter of 2024. This adjustment increased net sales, gross margin and operating income by approximately $26 million in the fourth quarter and full year 2024. Adjusting for this benefit in 2024, our raised sales outlook anticipates a growth of approximately 4%.

As we discussed, we saw significant outperformance in the third quarter. Additionally, we continue to see momentum into the fourth quarter, tailored by the Fashion Show, and our holiday offering is resonating well. We are winning in big moments like Black Friday and Cyber Monday, and we also have a robust gifting assortment across key categories like beauty, sleep and PINK and continued brand moments planned through the holiday season. Post holidays, we will be ready with the Valentine's Day floor set, giving us confidence in our ability to deliver a strong finish to fiscal 2025.

We are also raising our full year guidance for adjusted operating income, which is now expected to be in the range of $350 million to $375 million for fiscal year 2025 compared to our previous guidance of $270 million to $320 million. This compares to last year's adjusted operating income of $373 million in 2024 or approximately $347 million excluding the $26 million gift card breakage benefit.

Our guidance for the full year 2025 now assumes net tariff impact of approximately $90 million, with approximately $65 million impacting the fourth quarter. Our mitigation efforts include optimizing costs with vendors, further diversifying our sourcing, ensuring we have a more efficient air versus ocean freight mix and implementing a combination of select pricing adjustments through more targeted promotions and strategic price modifications, where we see a value proposition gap in the marketplace.

Adjusted nonoperating expenses, consisting principally of interest expense, are projected to be about $65 million for fiscal year 2025, down from $84 million in fiscal year 2024 and lower than the previous guidance, driven by expected lower levels of weighted average borrowings along with lower interest rates. We estimate our adjusted tax rate will be approximately 24% to 25% for fiscal year 2025, in line with guidance last quarter. We estimate weighted average diluted shares outstanding of approximately 83 million for fiscal year 2025.

Given these inputs, we are raising our fiscal year 2025 adjusted net income per diluted share to be in the range of $2.40 to $2.65 compared to our previous guidance of $1.80 to $2.20 and $2.69 in fiscal year 2024. Fiscal 2024 EPS would have been approximately $2.45 excluding the $26 million gift card breakage benefit.

We continue to be prudent with planning capital expenditures and still expect approximately $200 million in fiscal year 2025. Capital investments will primarily focus on investing in stores and the customer experience, along with investments in technology and logistics related to our strategic initiatives to drive growth and support productivity. We are also increasing our forecast of adjusted free cash flow to approximately $170 million to $210 million in fiscal year 2025.

Store counts and renovation plans in North America in 2025 continue to be similar to what we discussed in our previous calls. Square footage in our North American stores this year is still expected to decrease approximately 2% compared to 2024. By the end of the year, we estimate our Store of the Future presence in North America will be nearly 200 stores or approximately 25% of the fleet. Internationally, we estimate our Store of the Future presence at the end of 2025 will be approximately 40% of the fleet.

Turning to our outlook for the fourth quarter. We are forecasting net sales in the range of $2.17 billion to $2.2 billion compared to last year's fourth quarter net sales of $2.106 billion or approximately $2.08 billion excluding the $26 million gift card breakage benefit. Excluding last year's breakage benefit, our forecast assumes an approximate 4% to 6% top line growth based on continued momentum we are seeing quarter-to-date in our North America business as well as strength in our international business.

At this forecasted level of sales, we expect fourth quarter 2025 adjusted operating income to be in the range of $265 million to $290 million compared to an adjusted operating income of $299 million in the fourth quarter of 2024 or approximately $273 million excluding the $26 million gift card breakage benefit.

We expect our fourth quarter 2025 adjusted gross margin rate to be about 37% to 38%. For comparison, last year's fourth quarter gross margin rate was 39.7% or approximately 38.9% excluding the $26 million gift card breakage benefit. This means we anticipate the fourth quarter 2025 gross margin rate to be down between 90 to 190 basis points year-over-year. The decline reflects estimated net tariff pressure of approximately 300 basis points, partially offset by our disciplined promotional strategy and the strength of our operational model, which continues to deliver leverage on buying and occupancy expenses as net sales grow.

The adjusted SG&A rate in the fourth quarter 2025 is expected to lever slightly compared to the fourth quarter 2024's adjusted rate of 25.4% or approximately 25.8% excluding the $26 million gift card breakage benefit. The forecasted increase in SG&A dollars is primarily driven by store labor and other costs that drive top line.

We expect total inventories to be up mid-teens percent compared to last year. This increase is driven by growth to support business trends, the impact of tariffs and timing related to our operations mostly as we strategically shift towards ocean freight from airfreight, which results us in taking ownership of inventory earlier as compared to last year.

Given these inputs, we are forecasting fourth quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.45 compared to $2.60 in the fourth quarter of 2024 or approximately $2.35 excluding the $26 million gift card breakage benefit.

In closing, I want to reiterate a few key points. Our Path to Potential strategy is producing tangible results. We remain focused on managing costs while prioritizing investments in product innovation, brand strength and customer experience. These efforts, along with the solid operational foundation we have built, enables us to scale effectively and support the company's future growth. We feel confident in our ability to execute but are being thoughtful about the consumer, particularly post holiday.

Despite the uncertain macro environment, our fundamentals remain strong and resilient. Our outperformance in the third quarter, along with our market share gains and momentum into the fourth quarter, give us confidence in delivering the raised outlook for 2025 and positioning us for long-term success.

I would now like to open it up for questions. Operator?