Vestis Corporation (VSTS) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 2, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

James Barber - CEO, President & Director
Kelly Janzen - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Stefan Neely
Ronan Kennedy
Benjamin Luke McFadden - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Andrew Steinerman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Andrew J. Wittmann - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Keen Fai Tong - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Shlomo Rosenbaum - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Harold Antor - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to the Vestis Corporation Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to Stefan Neely with Vallum Advisors.

Stefan Neely

Thank you, operator, and thank you all for joining us on the call this morning. Leading the call with me today is Jim Barber, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Kelly Janzen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Jim and Kelly will provide prepared remarks, and then we will open the line to questions.

Before I turn the call over to Jim, I want to remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements about future business and financial expectations. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for such Forward-looking Statements. Actual results may differ significantly from those projected in today's forward-looking statements due to various risks and uncertainties, including the risks described in our periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update our forward-looking statements. Further, this call will include the discussion of certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of these measures to the closest GAAP financial measure is included in our quarterly earnings press release and corresponding supplemental materials, which are available at ir.vestis.com.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Jim.

James Barber
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Stefan. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. We have spent the past several months looking at every aspect of our business, how we operate, how we serve customers and how we create long-term value. That work culminated in a comprehensive multiyear business transformation plan, which we recently began executing. It's a plan that I feel confident will position Vestis to unlock operating leverage and deliver consistent profitable growth over the long term.

But before we dive into the specifics of our plan, I want to share some insights related to certain challenges I've identified since arriving to the company. First, over the past several years, Vestis prioritized revenue growth without sufficient focus on revenue quality. Much of the new revenue recently brought into the business did not meet the financial thresholds required for sustainable, profitable growth.

Second, we lost focus on customer service in certain areas of our business. This led to attrition of some of our higher-quality revenue accounts. Tactically, this showed up as a pricing approach that alienated certain customers, coupled with under investment in key processes and infrastructure expected to deliver consistent high-level service.

As some customers moved away, we were behind in implementing a coordinated strategy to address their concerns necessary to better manage nutrition. Third, while we were winning new customers, we lost discipline in managing our product mix, over-indexing on low-margin workplace supplies at the expense of our core uniform business where we generate our strongest long-term margins.

This lack of discipline has negatively impacted our operating leverage. The transformation plan we have developed addresses each of these issues head on. It focuses on implementing scalable processes, restoring customer centricity and recommitting the best practices to run the business more effectively. It was put together with the help from leading third-party advisers and will be executed in phases, which we expect to substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2027.

It is built around 3 strategic pillars: commercial excellence, operational excellence, and asset and network optimization. Let me walk through each of these and the related actions we are taking. Our first pillar is commercial excellence and at the center of this is the customer. In 2026, we are focused on deepening relationships and delivering value in a way that is high quality and profitable, both of which will improve retention. To do that, we are taking several key steps.

First, we are rolling out new tools that give us better visibility into customer segmentation and product profitability. These tools are critical to all aspects of our strategic execution. We are also making a new strategic approach to our pricing strategy. We are committed to ensuring that our pricing accurately reflects the value we deliver and our cost of service while remaining transparent, fair and competitive.

In addition, we are deploying market development representatives across our business to grow volume with our existing customers and better support their needs. Finally, we're also introducing a new tool to measure and improve satisfaction that will capture customer feedback at the point of delivery, allowing us to address concerns real time. We will be launching this in the coming weeks.

Our second pillar is operational excellence, and the priority for 2026 is improving plant performance and overall organizational efficiency. This pillar is fundamental to driving improved operating leverage and includes initiatives such as standardizing processes to improve safety and service quality, tightening cost controls and investing in technology to increase visibility and accountability.

We are also taking a series of steps to streamline our organization. That means ensuring our sales and administrative functions are sized appropriately and positioned to support the business with agility. In the fourth quarter, we made targeted reductions in our field sales team, while our cost structure was misaligned with revenue and growth opportunities and more recently, we made further reductions in various areas across the business where we believe we will operate more efficiently.

These were difficult decisions but necessary to support our future business objectives. I want to emphasize that the steps we're taking to streamline our organization will not impact our ability to deliver high-quality service. They are solely focused on simplifying our structure so we can operate more efficiently while continuing to serve our customers with excellence.

Finally, our third pillar is asset and network optimization, where we are focused on optimizing our asset base and redesigning our service delivery network. This is not a new priority, but in 2026, we are accelerating that work through comprehensive initiatives to evaluate route efficiency and consolidate underutilized locations. We're also continuing to invest in our facilities, upgrading equipment and infrastructure to improve service quality and reduce downtime.

These are relatively modest investments with strong returns. Foundational to all of this is a strong culture. We are prioritizing training, succession planning and employee engagement to improve turnover and foster a high-performance, customer-centric culture that wins.

I am incredibly optimistic about launching this plan. Not only does it include significant enhancements to how we operate, but it's also one that supports meaningful financial improvement. Inclusive of the planned initiatives, our 2026 full year adjusted EBITDA guidance midpoint is $300 million. $40 million higher than the Q4 2025 normalized exit run rate of $260 million.

We have already made progress, but I want to emphasize that this is a multiyear journey. The actions we are taking in 2026 are foundational designed to position Vestis for sustainable organic growth in 2027 and beyond. In a moment, Kelly will walk through our fourth quarter financial performance, along with our fiscal 2026 guidance in more detail. But before I turn it over, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the entire Vestis team for welcoming me into the organization and for their hard work, determination and commitment over the last year. My optimism for the future is strong, and I look forward to continuing to collaborate with this team as we move to the next chapter.

Now I'll turn it over to Kelly.

Kelly Janzen
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Jim, and good morning, everyone. I will now go through the 2025 fiscal fourth quarter financial results and then discuss our outlook for fiscal 2026. As a reminder, the fourth quarter of 2025 benefited from an additional operating week when compared to the fourth quarter of 2024. Reported revenue for the quarter was $712 million, or approximately $660 million when normalized to exclude a $52 million benefit from the additional operating week.

On a normalized basis, revenue was down $24 million or 3.5% year-over-year compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024. The decline in revenue was due to an $18 million decrease in rental revenue, $5 million in lower direct sales revenue and $1 million negative foreign currency impact. Within rental revenue, growth from new business or conversion contributed approximately $43 million or 6.5% of revenue year-over-year for Q4 on a normalized basis.

The normalized revenue impact in the fourth quarter from churn, our lost business was approximately $60 million when compared with the same quarter in the prior year. On a rolling 12-month basis, our business retention as measured in revenue dollars was 91.8% at the end of Q4, essentially flat when compared to what we reported in the third quarter. In addition, year-over-year revenue from our existing business was also flat.

In our direct sales business, revenue decreased $5 million or 13.6% year-over-year on a normalized basis from lower overall sales volume. Reported cost of services in the quarter was $533 million, and gross margin was 25.1%, down 366 basis points when compared to the fourth quarter of last year.

On a normalized basis, cost of services was $495 million, excluding $38 million in costs related to the additional operating week this quarter. The decrease in our gross margin is primarily due to the impact of lower revenue and reflects an $8 million increase in plant costs related to the increase in processing throughput compared to the prior year period. Reported SG&A for the fourth quarter was $126 million, a decrease of approximately $6 million year-over-year.

The reduction in SG&A includes a net increase of $7 million related to the additional operating week in the fourth quarter. The remaining $13 million decrease is made up of a $3 million decrease in selling expense due primarily to workforce reductions taken in our field sales team during the fourth quarter and $10 million in lower overall administrative costs.

For the full year 2025, the effective tax rate was 9.2%, and we recorded a benefit of $4 million for the fiscal year. Looking ahead to 2026, we would expect a full year effective tax rate to be in the range of 25% to 30%. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $65 million, representing an adjusted margin of 9.1%. The fiscal fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA includes a $3.6 million environmental reserve that had been a contingent liability for many years before we became a stand-alone public company, the amount of which was only recently estimable.

Thus, excluding this expense, Reported adjusted EBITDA would have been $68 million for the fourth quarter and when normalized for the extra week, we operationally generated $65 million in adjusted EBITDA with an adjusted margin of 9.8%. This compares to 11.8% in the fourth quarter of last year and 9.5% in the third quarter of 2025. Now moving on to cash flow and working capital.

During the quarter, we generated $31 million on operating cash flow and $16 million in free cash flow, reflecting a positive improvement over our fiscal third quarter. Net cash provided from working capital was $22 million, and includes an increase of approximately $8 million, resulting from our efforts to reduce our inventory levels and improve working capital efficiency.

Consistent with our expectations, we spent approximately $15 million on capital expenditures during the period. The majority of which was related to market center facility improvement. Looking at our balance sheet. At the end of the fiscal quarter, net debt was $1.34 billion and our principal bank debt outstanding was $1.17 billion. Our liquidity position is strong with no debt maturities until 2028 and $298 million of available liquidity, including $268 million of undrawn revolver capacity and $30 million of cash on hand. Our guiding principles for capital allocation are to maintain a strong balance sheet and allocate capital toward high return opportunities with a focus on delevering.

Our prudent balance sheet management and working capital actions aim to provide a flexible foundation from which to support our business. As Jim mentioned, we launched a multiyear business transformation and restructuring plan during the first quarter of 2026. The plan is centered around 3 strategic priorities: commercial excellence; operational excellence; and asset to network optimization and is designed to make the company more customer-focused, agile and efficient while positioning it for long-term profitable growth.

The plan is expected to generate run rate operating cost savings of at least $75 million by the end of 2026 and to also enhance revenue. We expect the plan to be substantially completed by the end of 2027, and for costs related to the execution of the plan to be in a range of approximately $25 million to $30 million.

Now moving on to our outlook for 2026. Our expectation in fiscal 2026 is for revenue to be between flat and down 2% as compared to normalized fiscal 2025 revenue. And adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $285 million to $315 million. Additionally, we expect fiscal 2026 free cash flow to be in the range of $50 million to $60 million, assuming capital expenditures are generally consistent with 2025.

The 2026 outlook reflects the fourth quarter 2025 exit rate annualized for both revenue and adjusted EBITDA along with the improvements we expect to generate through our plan. Regarding revenue, we plan to offset annual churn and stabilize revenue by implementing strategic pricing that is well executed along with driving higher penetration with existing customers through investing in market development representative. In addition, we are implementing various cost initiatives, which we expect to provide an incremental lift to adjusted EBITDA of roughly $40 million related to our Q4 exit rate.

We expect the first quarter of adjusted EBITDA to be approximately 7% to 10% better than the normalized $65 million generated in Q4, and that the remaining quarter of 2026 will show sequential improvement each quarter of approximately 5%. As of today, our average weekly revenue run rate for Q1 of 2026 is approximately $51 million, which is slightly above the Q4 2025 average.

As we look ahead, our near-term focus is on increasing both profitability and cash flow to lay the foundation for stronger, more durable financial performance going forward. The variety of initiatives we are executing related to our business transformation plan represents a critical step toward improving operating leverage, supporting the balance sheet and unlocking the full potential of our platform to deliver lasting value for all stakeholders.

Now I will turn it over to Jim for closing remarks before we take your questions.

James Barber
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Kelly. And before we go to Q&A, I'd like to close with a few salient points that I want to leave you with on why I'm confident in our 2026 plan and the improvement we expect to deliver. First, the majority of our improved profitability next year will come from actions squarely within our control, specifically removing excess costs from our operations.

Success here is about disciplined operating standards and strong leadership, and we've already taken steps to ensure both. Because of this, I'm confident that the fourth quarter of 2025 represents the low point for profitability. From here, we expect steady, measurable progress through 2026 as we execute our plan.

Second, Customer churn has been one of our biggest challenges and now represents one of our largest opportunities. It tells us that the balance between service quality and price has not been right. We have already begun implementing some measures to address churn starting in Q1 and improving retention will be a key driver of long-term revenue stability and growth.

Third, we see tremendous value in creating efficiencies across our operating network. In 2026, we're deploying tools that enable market centers to operate more effectively in alignment with our enterprise priorities. Fourth, our new segmentation and profitability tools will give us more visibility into day-to-day performance and unlock opportunities to create value for all stakeholders.

Finally, our business model is solid. What hasn't been solid are the processes and technology underpinning it. That's why we're investing in market centers of the future, which will modernize our operations and open new avenues for growth in the years ahead. Our near-term strategic road map is clear. We are focused on disciplined execution prioritizing customer service quality and driving operational rigor.

These are the levers that will position Vestis for sustainable, profitable growth. And importantly, we are already taking quick action to execute our plan. And that gives me confidence that 2026 will mark the beginning of a stronger, more resilient investors, built to deliver long-term value for our customers, employees and shareholders.

Now I'd like to turn the call back to the operator for your questions.