WEBTOON Entertainment Inc. (WBTN) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 12, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Soohwan Kim
Junkoo Kim - Founder, CEO & Chairman of the Board
David Lee - CFO, COO & Director
Yongsoo Kim - Chief Strategy Officer & Head of Global

Conference Call Participants

Benjamin Black - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Matthew Cost - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Douglas Anmuth - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Andrew Marok - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Unknown Executive

Thank you for standing by. My name is John, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the WEBTOON Entertainment Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Soohwan Kim, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Kim, please go ahead.

Soohwan Kim

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. As a reminder, our remarks today will include forward-looking statements, including those regarding our future plans, objectives, expected performance and our guidance for the next quarter. Actual results may vary materially from today's statements. Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause these results to differ is included in our SEC filings, including those stated in the Risk Factors section of our filings with the SEC. These forward-looking statements represent our outlook only as of the date of this call. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements.

Additionally, the matters we'll discuss today will include both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are set forth in our earnings press release. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for GAAP measures. Joining me today on the call are Junkoo Kim, Founder and CEO; David Lee, CFO and COO; and Yongsoo Kim, Chief Strategy Officer. With that, I will now turn the call over to our Founder and CEO, Junkoo Kim.

Junkoo Kim
Founder, CEO & Chairman of the Board

Thank you, everyone, for joining the call today. I will briefly discuss a few highlights from the third quarter before turning the call over to David to provide our results and outlook. For additional details about the quarter, please see the earnings press release and shareholder letter, both of which are posted on our Investor Relations website. We are pleased to report solid third quarter results that demonstrate the underlying strength of our model with adjusted EBITDA of $5.1 million, coming in above the midpoint of our guidance range.

Total revenue of $378 million was up 8.7% or 9.1% on a constant currency basis compared to the same quarter in 2024. This was an exciting quarter as we broadened our relationship with Disney. On September 15, 2025, we announced a nonbinding term sheet with Disney to develop an all new digital comics platform. This new platform, which WEBTOON Entertainment will build and operate will feature more than 35,000 comics from across Disney's portfolio, including Marvel, Star Wars, Disney, Pixar and 20th Century Studios, all available in a single digital service with one convenient subscription.

Alongside the commercial collaboration, we entered into a nonbinding term sheet for Disney to acquire a 2% equity interest in Western Entertainment. And we have already made progress. As of today, we have launched our 5 titles from our initial announcement in August, including Amazing Spiderman, Star Wars, Alien, Avengers and Disney as old as time: A twisted tale as well as another reformatted title, Predator. Additionally, and [near] Comic-Con last month, we announced another 5 new titles coming to WEBTOON, including Astonishing X-men, Star Wars Lost Stars, Star Wars: Darth Vader - Black, White and Red, The Unbeatable Squirrel Girl and Stitch and the Samurai

– The Complete Collection.

Disney's extraordinary storytelling legacy is second to none, and we are honored to work with them to build the future of digital comics. This is a powerful next step for our growing global business and a strong foundation for even greater collaboration with Disney in the years ahead. Moving on to our innovation in short-form video. We launched this video episode on our English language platform in August. Video episode reimagine the experience of enjoying web coming by adding motion, sound effect, background music and human voice adding to the original web commit all in a 5-minute video.

We believe this feature will deep engagement with existing users, reach new users and deliver on new medium for amazing stories. In Korea, we launched Cuts in September, another short-form video innovation. This feature allows creators and fans to create, unload and enjoy short-form animated video on the 2 minutes in name. Within just a month since we launched Cuts, we have already hosted over 1,000 creators with some videos already surpassing 1 million views. Finishing up with IP application, today, we announced the plan to develop a slate of animated projects with Warner Bros animation. We intend to enter into an agreement to coproduce 10-fan favorite WEBTOON series for global distribution.

Our creators are building franchise that Gen Z audience love and working with Warner Bros. Animation gives us an incredible opportunity to test those stories further alongside one of the most respected names in animation. As outlined in the shareholder letter, we also continue to see success with our theatrical and streaming release, including my daughter is a zombie, Your Letter and Chicken Nugget. We believe that IP adaptations are an important part of our [indiscernible] as we work to attract more users to our platform, and we are confident in our strong pipeline of application over the long term.

As we close out an exciting quarter marked by progress made toward our strategic priorities, I'm confident in our ability to deliver further growth in upcoming quarters. We would like to thank our users, creators and employees for their continued support. With that, I will now turn the call over to David.

David Lee
CFO, COO & Director

Thank you, JK, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I'll be discussing the details on third quarter 2025 results compared to the comparable quarter in the prior year, unless otherwise noted. During the third quarter, reported revenue was up 8.7%, and we grew revenue 9.1% on a constant currency basis, with growth in paid content and IP adaptations, partially offset by a decline in advertising. Net loss was $11.1 million compared to a net income of $20.0 million in the prior year, primarily due to lower other income as well as a higher income tax expense. Adjusted EBITDA was $5.1 million compared to $28.9 million in the same quarter of 2024.

As a result, our adjusted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.04 compared to adjusted earnings per share of $0.22 in the prior year. Turning to operational health. We delivered another successful quarter of Webcomic app user growth, attracting a highly engaged audience with better monetization opportunities. While app MAU declined 4.2% overall, webcomic app MAU, which excludes the impact of web novel users, increased 1.5%. This growth was led by increases across important English-speaking markets. Our English platform WebComic app MAU was up 12% year-over-year, demonstrating continued momentum in this important region. We believe recently introduced reformat title launches and product changes will continue to drive increased user activity over time.

Global MAU declined 8.5% in the quarter, primarily driven by Wattpad, which continues to be impacted by a government ban in the 2 countries we discussed last quarter. Encouragingly, we fully resolved the search engine indexing issue we discussed earlier this year and saw sequential stability in Wattpad MAU in the second half of this quarter as a result. While Wattpad is not a significant revenue driver, it is an important source of IP. We recently received a green light on a new film project that began as a web novel on Wattpad, turned into a webcomic on WEBTOON and now will become a feature film. We're excited to share more about this title soon.

Now I'd like to provide an update on our different revenue streams at a consolidated level. Starting with paid content. In the quarter, we posted 0.8% revenue growth on a constant currency basis year-over-year, driven by strength in Japan and Rest of World, offset by a decline in Korea. ARPU grew 3% on a constant currency basis in the quarter with increases in all 3 regions. We see continued ARPU growth as an indicator of the health of the business with additional opportunity for further monetization ahead. There still is a large variety of free content for our users to enjoy before they hit the paywall, and we believe our ARPU is still relatively low for our offering.

Through our product initiatives, partnerships and new content, we believe that we will continue to drive engagement and monetization over the long term. Advertising revenue decreased 8.9% in the third quarter on a constant currency basis year-over-year as growth in Japan was more than offset by constant currency declines in Korea and Rest of World. In Korea, we saw a decline from a major e-commerce advertising partner, partially offset by an increase from other partners. Ad sales from NAVER were relatively consistent with the prior year quarter. In Rest of World, the decline was primarily driven by Wattpad impacts.

Japan's growth was the result of continued growth in pre-roll ads. Finally, our IP adaptations business saw revenue increase 171.8% year-on-year on a constant currency basis in Q3, driven by revenue growth on a constant currency basis in Korea and Rest of World, offset by a decline on a constant currency basis in Japan. Korea benefited from the theatrical release of my daughter is a zombie. In Japan, we are still early days with our IP adaptation business with a small revenue base that fluctuates based on milestones. But we're pleased with the pipeline of upwards of 20 anime projects for the year.

Now let's look at our results in the context of our core geographies. In Korea, during the third quarter, our revenue grew 22.2% year-over-year on a constant currency basis, driven by triple-digit constant currency growth in IP adaptations, offset by a double-digit constant currency decline in advertising and a single-digit constant currency decline in paid content. During the quarter, Korea MAU was $24.6 million, decreasing 12.3% year-over-year. MPU was 3.7 million, declining 4.9%. We saw growth of 4% for ARPU on a constant currency basis and paying ratio was 14.9%, up 116 basis points year-over-year.

Moving to Japan. Revenue growth on a constant currency basis was 2% year-over-year. This was driven by single-digit constant currency revenue growth in paid content and advertising and offset by a double-digit constant currency revenue decline in IP adaptations. As mentioned in our shareholder letter, LINE Manga was the #1 overall app for revenue, including mobile games for the third consecutive quarter according to Sensor Tower. Japan's MAU increased 12.6% year-over-year to $25.3 million, driven by strong growth in eBook Japan.

We've expanded eBook Japan's marketing budget and established strong partnerships. While it may take time for new users to start spending, we expect their ARPU to increase over time as their engagement grows. MPU grew 0.2% year-over-year to 2.3 million and paying ratio was 9.1%, down 112 basis points year-over-year. Our paid users remained strong with ARPU of $23.60, growing 1.3% year-over-year on a constant currency basis. Rest of World saw a revenue decline of 0.7% year-over-year on a constant currency basis, driven by a double-digit decline in advertising, offset by a single-digit growth in paid content and double-digit growth in IP adaptations.

While Rest of World MAU declined 11.6% year-over-year, driven primarily by WattPad, MPU increased 0.8% year-over-year and paying ratio of 1.6% was up 20 basis points year-over-year. ARPU of $6.80 grew 1.4% year-over-year on a reported and constant currency basis. Our English platform WebComic app MAU was up 12% year-over-year, reflecting all the investments we're making in this region. After several quarters of healthy MAU growth, we're pleased to see an increasing number of English WebComic users converting to paid users. Turning now to profitability. Gross profit for the quarter declined 9.4% to $82.8 million. This resulted in a gross margin of 21.9% compared to 26.3% in the prior year.

There were a number of items that contributed to this change. As previously disclosed, Freepoint expenses were moved from marketing to cost of revenue. We invested in labor to make further improvement to our platform. While these discrete items temporarily affected our results, we believe our gross margin can improve over time as we execute on our cross-border content distribution strategies. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $5.1 million compared to $28.9 million in the prior year. Total G&A expenses for the quarter were $62.5 million compared to $66.7 million in the prior year.

Interest income for the quarter was $4.6 million compared to $6.5 million in the prior year, and other loss for the quarter was $1.9 million compared to other income of $11.8 million in the prior year period. Income tax expense was $0.6 million in the quarter compared to income tax benefit of $9.9 million in the prior year. Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $7.9 million compared to $10 million in the prior year. Net loss for the third quarter was $11.1 million compared to a net income of $20 million in the prior year quarter due to lower other income as well as higher income tax expense.

As a result, GAAP loss per share was $0.09 compared to earnings per share of $0.15 in the prior year period. Adjusted earnings per share was $0.04 in the quarter compared to adjusted earnings per share of $0.22 in the year prior. Moving to our business outlook for the fourth quarter. For fourth quarter 2025, we expect revenue decline in the range of 5.1% to 2.3% on a constant currency basis. This represents anticipated revenue in the range of $330 million to $340 million. This guidance is based on current FX rates. We expect pressure from IP adaptations related to the timing of milestones.

We're close to finishing our infrastructure updates in Q4, but there may be a few items that linger into early 2026. We expect to see improved product flow starting next year. We anticipate fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA loss in the range of $6.5 million to $1.5 million, representing an adjusted EBITDA margin in the range of negative 2% to negative 0.4%. Adjusted EBITDA guidance includes $16.5 million noncash expenses, of which actuarial losses on retiree benefits and minimum guarantee write-downs are the largest contributors. We expect to maintain our investment in marketing to drive future growth. We're pleased with the performance this quarter, underpinned by a number of exciting partnerships and collaborations as well as the introduction of new product features.

As we head into the fourth quarter, we remain confident in our ability to drive further progress, positioning us well to continue growing our content, platform and brand long term. With that, I'd like to turn it back to our operator to begin the Q&A session.