Waste Management, Inc. (WM) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 10:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Edward Egl - Director of Investor Relations
James Fish - CEO & Director
John Morris - President & COO
Devina Rankin - Executive VP & CFO
Tara Hemmer - Senior VP & Chief Sustainability Officer
Rafael Carrasco - Senior VP of Enterprise Strategy & President of WM Healthcare Solutions

Conference Call Participants

Patrick Brown - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Noah Kaye - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Trevor Romeo
Toni Kaplan - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
James Schumm - TD Cowen, Research Division
Robert Wertheimer - Melius Research LLC
Faiza Alwy - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Tami Zakaria - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Konark Gupta - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Kevin Chiang - CIBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Shlomo Rosenbaum - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Bryan Burgmeier - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Stephanie Benjamin Moore - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the WM Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.

[Operator Instructions]

Please note that today's conference may be recorded. I will now hand the conference over to your speaker host, Ed Egl, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Edward Egl
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Olivia. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our third quarter 2025 earnings conference call. With me this morning are Jim Fish, Chief Executive Officer; John Morris, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Devina Rankin, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

You will hear prepared comments from each of them today. Jim will cover our high-level financials and provide a strategic update. John will cover an operating overview, and Devina will cover the details of the financials.

Before we get started, please note that we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the earnings press release and is available on our website at www.wm.com. The Form 8-K, the press release and the schedules of the press release include important information. During the call, you will hear forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations, projections or opinions about future periods.

All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today's press release and in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs. John will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume, which, unless stated otherwise, are more specifically references to internal revenue growth or IRG from yield or volume.

During the call, Jim, John and Devina will discuss operating EBITDA, which is income from operations before depreciation and amortization. References to the WM legacy business are total WM results, excluding the WM Healthcare Solutions segment. Any comparisons, unless otherwise stated, will be with the prior year period. Net income, EPS, income from operations and margin, operating EBITDA and margin, operating expense and margin and SG&A expense and margin have been adjusted to enhance comparability by excluding certain items that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or results of operations.

These adjusted measures, in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the earnings press release and tables, which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures. This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time today. To hear a replay of the call, access the WM website at www.investors.wm.com. Time-sensitive information provided during today's call, which is occurring on October 28, 2025, may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay. Any redistribution, retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of WM is prohibited.

Now I'll turn the call over to WM's CEO, Jim Fish.

James Fish
CEO & Director

Okay. Thanks, Ed, and thank you all for joining us.

Our team delivered another strong quarter of operational and financial performance. This led to third quarter operating EBITDA growth of more than 15% and free cash flow growth of nearly 33%. These strong results reflect the hard work of our teams, the resilience of our business model and the value of the intentional investments we've made across our business. Our collection and disposal business continues to be the engine behind our growth, contributing more than half of the year-over-year increase in operating EBITDA.

The business drove strong organic revenue growth, and we're particularly pleased with our ability to attract robust disposal volumes to our network. MSW grew 5% in the quarter and special waste volumes grew 5.5%, driven by new event work. We also remain focused on maximizing customer lifetime value through our pricing strategies and leveraging technology to optimize our cost structure, and we continue to pursue tuck-in acquisition opportunities to extend our network and drive further internalization.

Turning to WM Healthcare Solutions. The strategic value of the medical waste platform within WM's portfolio is more evident than ever. We've successfully integrated the people and operations of health care solutions into the existing management and operating structure of our 16 areas. This not only streamlines our operating model, but also allows us to apply our playbook, the WM Way across the acquired business, fostering a culture of customer focus, continuous improvement and accountability. This aligned structure accelerates collaboration and unlocks new opportunities for growth.

As an example, one of our top hospital customers has increased their annual spend with us by over $5 million after choosing us as their single provider solution across their multistate network. This is precisely the type of cross-selling opportunity that gives us confidence in the long-term value of our combined offering. In our sustainability businesses, our solid performance is the direct result of success in managing contract structures and leveraging innovative technologies. Even as recycled commodity prices declined nearly 35% compared to last year, our recycling segment operating EBITDA grew by 18%, which is a phenomenal result.

Our new renewable natural gas facilities drove higher year-over-year contributions from the Renewable Energy segment. Though growth was lower sequentially due to the timing of RIN sales, our full year growth expectations remain consistent with our initial outlook.

I'm proud of the momentum we're building in this final stretch of '25 and even more excited about the opportunities ahead. These last several years, including this one, have been years of deliberate and disciplined investment in technology and automation in our fleet in new recycling and renewable energy, renewable natural gas facilities and in a premier medical waste platform. Each of these investments was made with intention and with a long-term view, positioning us to serve our customers better while structurally lowering our cost to serve.

We're pleased to share that 2026 is setting up to be a year of harvesting the benefits of our investments, which will be partially evident in our free cash flow as our early view for next year suggests free cash flow approaching $3.8 billion. We remain thoughtful and disciplined in our capital allocation, and we fully expect to translate this performance into commensurate returns for our shareholders.

In closing, WM is exceptionally well positioned for future success. Our long-term strategy is delivering and the investments we've made are paying off. As always, our results are a testament to the hard work and dedication of our people, and I sincerely appreciate the contributions of each and every team member.

I'll now turn the call over to John to discuss our operational results.

John Morris
President & COO

Thanks, Jim, and good morning, everyone. In the third quarter, our team expanded margins by maintaining discipline on price-cost spread, leveraging advanced fleet and maintenance technology to reduce operating costs and realizing returns from our sustainability investments and strategic acquisitions. Our results affirm that our strategy is working and our disciplined organic and inorganic investments deliver long-term value. In the third quarter, we saw continued growth in our core collection and disposal business, increased contributions from our sustainability businesses and sequential margin growth and synergy capture from our Healthcare Solutions segment.

In our collection and disposal business, we delivered strong performance in the third quarter with operating EBITDA margins expanding 100 basis points to a record 38.4% and operating EBITDA growing more than 7% with every line of business contributing to that growth. Both results are consistent with our operating EBITDA growth and margin expansion objectives and reflect the strength of our post-collection assets, increased landfill volumes and our disciplined focus on optimizing price-cost spread through customer lifetime value. We're also realizing the returns on strategic investments we've made to enhance efficiency and structurally drive costs lower.

Looking at our top line, we delivered solid organic revenue growth in Q3, driven by disciplined pricing and improving volume trends in several lines of business. Core price was 6%, exceeding our plan with residential and disposal pricing leading the way. Collection and disposal yield came in at 3.8%, which was in line with expectations. Volume increased in the quarter with industrial up 1.2%, our first positive quarter since 2022. We remain focused on differentiating our services and maximizing customer lifetime value and our customers see the value of our service as churn remained right in the 9% range and service increases outpace service decreases.

Additionally, landfill volumes rose 5.2% with broad strength across MSW, special waste and construction and demolition, mostly all unrelated to wildfire cleanup. As we mentioned at Investor Day, our strategic post-collection network continues to drive value both now and over the long term as we have seen both strong price and volume contributions. And our results keep us on track to meet our organic growth expectations for the full year.

Turning to operating expenses. Q3 marked our second consecutive quarter with operating expenses below 60% of revenue. This improvement was driven primarily by our collection and disposal business, which contributed 90 basis points of margin expansion through lower maintenance and risk management costs. On the fleet side, investments in trucks and technology improved our maintenance processes, reduced repair and maintenance costs by 60 basis points. Additionally, our focus on retention and training and development contributed to a 7% year-to-date improvement in the total recordable incident rate, lowering our risk management costs as a percentage of revenue.

The strategic investments we've made in our team, our fleet, cutting-edge technology and comprehensive training are showing meaningful results. Turnover improved by an impressive 300 basis points, bringing the combined rate for drivers and technicians down to a record low of 16.8%. These results underscore that when we invest in our people, we invest in the future of our business. These same investments in people, process and technology are showing up in the WM Healthcare Solutions business as well. Since the beginning of 2025, the team has improved turnover by 21% while also improving on-time service delivery to the highest level in over 4 years.

As we close the third quarter, our results reflect not only strong execution, but also the innovative mindset that continues to set WM apart. From advancing operational efficiency to strengthening our customer relationships, our progress is driven by the ingenuity and commitment of our team. Thank you to all of our employees for the work you do every day to move us forward.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Devina to walk through our financial results in more detail.

Devina Rankin
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, John, and good morning. Total company operating EBITDA margin was 30.6% in the third quarter, which is the best quarterly result in our history, and that is despite the expected margin headwind from the acquisition of the Healthcare Solutions business. WM's legacy business achieved operating EBITDA margin of 32% in the quarter, meaningfully surpassing our long-standing ambition of sustained operating EBITDA margins above 30%. We achieved these results while overcoming a known 30 basis point headwind from the expiration of the alternative fuel tax credit.

Our Legacy Business achieved 120 basis points of margin expansion in the quarter from 4 primary things: one, continued optimization of business mix with strong municipal solid waste volumes taking the place of low-margin residential volumes; two, our focus on operational efficiencies in our collection and disposal business; three, the scaling of our sustainability businesses; and four, our dedicated focus on reducing costs. The remaining 60 basis points of margin expansion was driven by lower recycled commodity prices in our brokerage business and a reduction in incentive compensation costs.

As I mentioned, the Healthcare Solutions business created an expected headwind for our consolidated margins. Our focus on optimizing this business will lessen this pressure over time, and we can already see the benefits of the team's integration and optimization efforts on the margins of this segment, which have improved each quarter since we acquired the business and are now at 17.5%. The key takeaway from all of this is that WM's disciplined focus on driving efficiency and investing in high-return opportunities is benefiting our financial results.

Our strong performance continues to translate into robust operating and free cash flow growth. Through the first 9 months of 2025, we generated $4.35 billion in cash from operations, an increase of 12% compared to the same period in 2024. This increase reflects our significant earnings growth, partially offset by higher cash interest due to the debt issued last year to fund the acquisition of Stericycle.

Capital spending to support the business and our sustainability growth investments are both tracking according to plan, totaling $2.34 billion for the year-to-date period. Putting these pieces together, free cash flow has grown 13.5% to $2.11 billion. Notably, our operating EBITDA to free cash flow conversion approached 42% in the third quarter, reflecting that we have moved from peak investment levels in sustainability growth projects, landfill infrastructure and our fleet into a period where we will harvest strong returns on these investments.

Through the first 3 quarters of 2025, we've returned $1 billion to our shareholders in dividends and allocated more than $400 million to solid waste acquisitions. Our leverage ratio at the end of the quarter was 3.3x, and we continue to track toward our target ratio of between 2.5x and 3x, which we expect to achieve by the middle of 2026.

Turning to WM Healthcare Solutions. As Jim mentioned, we're as confident as ever in the strategic value of the acquisition, and we are committed to fully capturing its long-term potential. Revenue trends for this business reflect a more measured pace than our initial projections. This is because we are using a disciplined approach to customer engagement, which means we have offered credits and deferred planned price increases for some of our customers. All of this reflects our focus on maximizing customer lifetime value and building a strong foundation for sustainable long-term growth.

Despite the moderation in the anticipated pace of revenue growth in the second half of 2025, we're on track to achieve the targeted operating EBITDA contributions from the acquisition across our total company results because synergy capture has exceeded our initial expectations, internalization of waste into our landfill network has been effective and cross-selling opportunities are proving to be strong.

Turning to our total company outlook for the remainder of the year. We remain confident in our ability to deliver the operating EBITDA and free cash flow guidance we provided last quarter. Full year revenue is projected to be at the low end of our prior guidance range, reflecting incremental weakness in recycled commodity prices and our revised expectations for Healthcare Solutions. With our outstanding year-to-date operating EBITDA margin results and confidence in our continued execution as we close out the year, margin expectations have increased to between 29.6% and 30.2%. In short, we are well positioned to achieve another year of strong earnings, margin and cash flow growth in 2025 and to build on our success as we go into 2026.

Finally, as many of you know, this is my final earnings call as CFO before my upcoming retirement from WM. Over the past 23 years, I've had the privilege of being part of this extraordinary team. Together, we work hard each day to care for each other and our communities and to deliver value to all of our stakeholders. In closing, I must say that my favorite thing about our business has always been the people.

I want to thank the entire team for leading the way in service to our customers, the environment and to our shareholders. To our shareholders, thank you for your trust and support. I have complete confidence in the WM team and in David Reed, our incoming CFO, who knows this business deeply and has been instrumental in shaping our financial strategy. I know the future is bright, and I look forward to watching WM's continued success.

With that, Olivia, let's open the line for questions.