Walmart Inc. (WMT) Q3 2026 Earnings Call November 20, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Stephanie Wissink - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Doug McMillon - President, CEO & Director
John Furner - Executive VP, CEO & President of Walmart US and Director
John Rainey - Executive VP & CFO
Kathryn McLay - Executive VP, President & CEO of Walmart International
Christopher Nicholas - Executive VP, President & CEO of Sam's Club U.S.

Conference Call Participants

Simeon Gutman - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Gregory Melich - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Katharine McShane - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Seth Sigman - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Kelly Bania - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Michael Lasser - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Christopher Horvers - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Robert Ohmes - BofA Securities, Research Division
Paul Lejuez - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Rupesh Parikh - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Charles Grom - Gordon Haskett Research Advisors

Presentation

Operator

Greetings. Welcome to Walmart's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded.

I'll now turn the conference over to Steph Wissink, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Thank you, Steph, you may begin.

Stephanie Wissink
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Welcome, everyone. Thank you for your interest in Walmart. Joining me today from our home office in Bentonville are Walmart's CEO, Doug McMillon; and CFO, John David Rainey. Doug will begin with remarks about our upcoming leadership transition. Then we will hear from John Furner, recently named as CEO of Walmart Inc. beginning February 1, 2026. Doug and John David will then share their views on the third quarter and our business trends. Thereafter, we'll open the line for your questions. During the question-and-answer portion, we'll invite segment leaders to join in responding to your questions. John for Walmart U.S., Kath McLay for Walmart International; and Chris Nicholas for Sam's Club U.S. We will make every effort to answer as many questions as we can in the hour we have scheduled for this call.

As a courtesy to others, please limit yourself to 1 question. For additional detail on our results, including highlights by segment, please see our earnings release and supplemental presentation on our website.

Today's call is being recorded, and management may make forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors identified in our filings with the SEC. Please review our press release and slide presentation for a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements as well as our entire safe harbor statement and non-GAAP reconciliations on our website at stock.walmart.com.

That concludes my introduction. Doug, it's my privilege to turn the earnings call over to you one last time.

Doug McMillon
President, CEO & Director

Good morning, and thanks for joining us. The team delivered another strong quarter. Our associates have us well positioned to finish the year with momentum. It's been an honor to serve them as CEO, and I'm as excited about the future of this company as I've ever been. John is ready. He knows our business so well and he has the characteristics to lead us into the future. I couldn't be happier for him and for our company. Congratulations, John.

John Furner
Executive VP, CEO & President of Walmart US and Director

Thank you, Doug. I'm excited about our future. I'm appreciative and humbled by this opportunity and look forward to accepting the responsibility to serve Walmart more broadly as President and CEO. I love this company and I love our associates. I believe in our values and in our purpose to help people save money and live better. I believe we're well positioned to fulfill our purpose.

Doug McMillon
President, CEO & Director

You'll be great. Back to the quarter, the team delivered strong sales and profit growth across each of our segments. Sales grew 5.9% overall in constant currency, and adjusted operating income grew even faster at 8%. We drove positive transaction counts and unit volumes, and we're gaining market share in grocery and general merchandise, including here in the U.S., where we saw strength across income cohorts and especially with higher income households.

It's great to see the positive general merchandise sales across the company, and I'm excited about what we're seeing with our fashion categories in Walmart U.S. in particular. E-commerce was a highlight again in Q3, up 27% in total. Each segment delivered growth in e-commerce above 20%. The way we're driving growth on the top line is helping us strengthen and differentiate our bottom line. Globally, advertising grew 53%, including VIZIO, and membership income was up 17%.

Let's talk about each segment. I'll start with International, which continues to lift the growth rate for the company. International drove the strongest performance with a sales increase of 11.4% in constant currency and adjusted operating income grew 16.9%. We continue to benefit from business mix changes and lower losses in e-commerce. Transaction counts and unit volumes are up across markets, and we're gaining market share.

E-commerce sales for International were up 26%. That included our Flipkart team in India executing a record Big Billion Days event. Almost 1/3 of our business outside the U.S. is digital with e-commerce in China at 50% penetration. And the team in China is delivering orders fast. Nearly 80% of digital orders arrived in under an hour.

In October, I got to visit 3 Chinese cities. In Hefei, a city of about 10 million people, we visited a relatively new Sam's Club that was outstanding. We now have 60 Sam's Clubs in the country and a healthy pipeline of new clubs coming. China is more advanced in terms of digital retail than anywhere we operate, and there's always a lot to learn that helps inform what we do around the world. I also got a chance to visit our team in Canada last month. I'm excited about the leadership team and the opportunity we have to grow market share, reinforced by EDLP and tapping into our omnichannel advantages.

For Walmart U.S., we drove comp sales of 4.5%, and we grew e-commerce by 28% with marketplace sales growth of 17%. We continue to deliver the value people are looking for with healthy growth in both transactions and units sold. Comps were good across each month of the quarter, and share gains were consistent with what we've seen this year. Delivery speed matters, and we're delivering faster than ever. For Q3, 35% of digital orders were delivered in under 3 hours.

At a category level, sales in general merchandise were positive with fashion, home and automotive leading the way. Grocery performed well with good unit growth, and health and wellness was up low double digits.

For Sam's Club here in the U.S., the team delivered comp sales of 3.8% with strength across categories. The comp was driven by transaction counts, and we're gaining market share in grocery and general merchandise. Sam's continues to do a great job of engaging our members digitally. We have a profitable e-commerce business that outpaced our expectations again this quarter, up 22% in sales. For Sam's membership, we see good growth in member count, renewal rates and Plus member penetration.

As we look at our customers and members here in the U.S., they're still spending with upper and middle income households driving our growth. We continue to benefit from higher income families choosing to shop with us more often. Middle income households have been steady, and while lower income families have been under additional pressure of late, we're encouraged by how our teams are meeting them with greater value across necessities and doing what we can to help them stretch their dollars further.

For the quarter, like-for-like inflation in Walmart U.S. was 1.3% with food and general merchandise up low single digits. We continue working to resist the upward pressure on our cost of goods and to manage our mix. We have about 7,400 active rollbacks in Walmart U.S. right now, with more than half of those in the grocery category. Often, our 90-day rollbacks lead to a permanent price reduction, a new EDLP. Since the beginning of the year, more than 2,000 rollbacks have become the new everyday price. We'll keep strengthening our ability to save people time and money, and we'll keep finding ways to keep our prices as low as possible and being strategic in our pricing actions. Everyone wants value.

Inventory management is always important, and it's especially important in this environment as we reduce markdown risk to help fund stronger price gaps. Our team continues to do a great job. The ability of our Walmart U.S. team, in particular, to make good quantity decisions and manage pricing and mix well has been impressive. Both Walmart and Sam's U.S. delivered strong seasonal sell-throughs for back-to-school and Halloween. The results we're delivering today are powered by our people and by technology. We continue to get better at putting our data to work, building more capable tech products and platforms and by deploying physical automation.

The investments to automate our supply chain continue to go well. The team is delivering according to plan, and it's helping our associates and our stores receive and manage inventory better than before.

As it relates to AI, we continue building towards an e-commerce experience that is, one, more personalized and relevant; two, multimodal, meaning a voice, text, image and video experience that is more conversational. Interacting with our app will include improved imagery, short-form video, live streaming and interaction with influencers. Ads will still be present, but in a more contextual and helpful way, surfacing as recommendations or sponsored bundles that add value. There'll be attention capture and decision influence through data. And three, the new experience will be contextual, understanding customer intent and anticipating needs to save them time.

As we think about new tech products and capabilities, sometimes we build our own tech and sometimes we partner. Our recent announcement with OpenAI is an example. This new partnership will allow customers and members to purchase items from Walmart and Sam's Club directly through ChatGPT. This starts relatively simplistically with the checkout process. It will become more immersive, integrated and seamlessly connected experiences that bring Walmart closer to customers in new ways.

We're adopting artificial intelligence in its various forms across the company. Take software development, for example. When AI is used for software development, more than 40% of the new code is either AI-generated or AI-assisted. We're helping our associates build the skills they will need to thrive in an AI-powered workplace through things like embracing OpenAI certifications and rolling out ChatGPT enterprise licenses.

I'll wrap up by saying thank you and conveying my excitement about our future. Our strategy is clear, and we're focused on innovating and consistently executing to deliver greater sales, margins and returns. Our associates continue to impress. They care, they learn, they step up and change. They're moving forward. They bring our purpose and our values to life. This company and our team's ability to change should not be underestimated. That ability enables us to adapt and thrive. Our timeless purpose and values, combined with the ability to innovate, ensure our strong future.

John David, over to you.

John Rainey
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Doug. We're pleased with how the team executed this quarter and with the strength of our business across markets, continued share gains and disciplined cost control. Our results were better than expected on the top and bottom line and reflect the advantages of our omnichannel model and the diversified nature of our profit streams.

As we indicated earlier this year, we're playing offense, accelerating our growth, reinforcing our customer and member value proposition, evolving our model and diversifying our profits. Importantly, we're delivering on our financial framework of growing profit faster than sales. Our strategy of offering everyday low prices while leveraging our physical and digital assets to provide greater convenience is clearly resonating. Now I'll get into some of the details of our third quarter performance.

Consolidated revenue in constant currency increased 6% or more than $10 billion, led by continued e-commerce momentum with 27% growth. In all of our markets, we're getting faster with delivery speeds, reaching more households across a broader assortment and improving execution. For example, in Walmart U.S., approximately 35% of store-fulfilled orders were expedited or delivered in under 3 hours. And sales through these expedited channels increased nearly 70% this quarter. The notable thing about our e-commerce growth is the consistency of it across our markets.

In Walmart U.S., comp sales grew 4.5% with traffic growth both in stores and online. E-commerce sales grew 28%, led by strength in pickup and delivery and advertising. This was the seventh consecutive quarter of e-commerce growth above 20%. We're encouraged by the share gains across grocery, health and wellness and general merchandise categories. Fashion, in particular, has been a bright spot with improving comp trends throughout this year.

The U.S. team continues to do an excellent job balancing price and mix to reinforce our value proposition. We're leaning into price rollbacks and making both everyday essentials and seasonal celebrations more affordable for customers and members. Walmart's Thanksgiving meal basket is a great example. It will feed a group of 10 people for less than $40.

The International segment delivered over 11% sales growth in constant currency, led by strength in Flipkart, China and Walmex. Flipkart had strong results aided by the earlier timing of the Big Billion Days or BBD sales event. The BBD event saw strong customer engagement with sales growth led by mobile devices, electronics and fashion. At our peak, we delivered 87 orders per second with the fastest delivery in about 3 minutes.

Sales in China increased 22% in Q3, reflecting ongoing strength at Sam's Club and more than 30% growth in e-commerce. Sam's Club U.S. comp sales ex fuel increased 3.8%. Recall that we're lapping a multiday period of strong comps in Q3 last year related to a port strike that equated to an approximate 120 basis point benefit to comp sales in last year's period.

Members continue to engage more digitally, both inside the club using Scan & Go as well as through the convenience of Curbside Pickup and delivery options. Member adoption of Scan & Go reached 36% in Q3, an increase of 450 basis points versus last year, and club-fulfilled delivery grew triple digits again this quarter. The Sam's team continues to enhance member benefits related to e-commerce. Curbside Pickup is now free for all members with no minimum purchase requirements, and we've accelerated the speed of delivery by leveraging Walmart's Spark driver platform to pick and fulfill delivery orders. These actions have contributed to stronger e-commerce sales and improved average delivery times.

Consolidated gross profit was relatively flat year-over-year. Walmart U.S. increased 19 basis points as a result of disciplined inventory management and favorable business mix. This was offset by pressure in the International segment from channel and format mix due in part to Flipkart's BBD event as well as ongoing price investments in Mexico. Merchandise category mix in Walmart U.S. remains a headwind as sales growth in grocery and health and wellness outpaced general merchandise.

Across the enterprise, our business model continues to evolve with operating income increasingly influenced by improved e-commerce economics, particularly in Walmart U.S. and Flipkart, with growing contributions from business mix, most notably in higher-margin areas like advertising and membership fees. This quarter, the combination of advertising and membership fee income represented approximately 1/3 of our consolidated adjusted operating income.

With continued strong momentum in e-commerce, our advertising business globally increased 53%, including VIZIO. Walmart Connect in the U.S. ex VIZIO grew 33% as we continue to grow advertiser counts, including through our third-party marketplace. We also saw 34% growth in international advertising led by Flipkart.

Membership income increased 17% across the enterprise, led by 34% growth in International, primarily due to Sam's Club China. In the U.S., Walmart+ membership income continued to grow at double-digit pace. Across all income cohorts, we saw membership income growth accelerate with overall Q3 net adds our strongest on record, supported by new benefits like our OnePay CashRewards credit card and expanded streaming services.

Sam's Club U.S. membership income grew 7%. We're encouraged by the strength of new member acquisition at Sam's globally, particularly among younger demographics. Adjusted SG&A expenses leveraged slightly in Q3. Expenses are being well managed across the business. Technology and AI have been enablers of efficiency gains. We're using AI across the organization to manage cost effectively and to accelerate our growth. As we continue to invest in supply chain automation, we're also seeing improved efficiency and fulfillment economics. In Walmart U.S., more than 60% of our stores are now receiving some freight from automated distribution centers, and more than 50% of our e-commerce fulfillment center volume is now automated, which is driving better unit productivity and helping to lower the cost to serve.

Enterprise adjusted operating income increased 8% in constant currency, growing faster than sales across each of our operating segments. International delivered strong operating income growth of nearly 17%, reflecting contributions from business mix, improved e-commerce economics and growth of membership income, while we saw mid-single-digit growth from both of our U.S. segments. Adjusted EPS was slightly better than we expected, up nearly 7% to $0.62.

Our third quarter GAAP results include a charge of approximately $700 million related to our PhonePe subsidiary in India. This was a discrete noncash charge related to share-based compensation expense and contemplation of a potential IPO. Our teams continue to do a great job managing inventory in this dynamic environment. Inventory levels increased approximately 3% for the total company, with Walmart U.S. inventory up 2.6% despite higher costs from tariffs.

With our growing 3P marketplace, we have the ability to better balance owned and third-party inventory, improving our working capital efficiency, while still offering the customer a broader assortment.

Return on investment, as measured over the last 12 months, declined slightly, primarily due to the PhonePe charge discussed earlier. Underlying ROI performance continues to improve, supported by capital discipline and operating cash flow strength. The business continues to generate strong cash flow with year-to-date operating cash flow of $27 billion, up $4.5 billion compared to last year. This provides flexibility to reinvest in the business while at the same time returning significant capital to shareholders. Year-to-date, we've returned nearly $13 billion through dividends and share repurchases.

Overall, Q3 results demonstrate the underlying strength and resiliency of our business model. Our diverse portfolio of businesses, our scale and our commitment to innovation give us confidence in our ability to deliver sustainable growth.

Now turning to guidance. Recall at our Investor Day in April, on the heels of the tariff announcements, we said that we're going to play offense. We said that we would look to gain share. And we said that despite some of the obvious headwinds, we're not giving up on our goal of growing profits faster than sales. Given the year-to-date performance and our outlook for Q4, we're raising our guidance for sales and operating income for the year.

Full year sales in constant currency is expected to grow between 4.8% and 5.1%, up from 3.75% to 4.75% prior. This reflects our confidence in our team's ability to continue driving share gains in Q4. Fourth quarter constant currency sales guidance is for growth of 3.75% to 4.75%. Notably, if currency exchange rates stay where they are today for the entire fourth quarter, we would expect a $1.1 billion benefit to reported sales growth.

For operating income, we expect full year growth in a range of 4.8% to 5.5% on a constant currency basis, with Q4 growth in a range of 8% to 11%. Currency is expected to be an approximate 100 basis point benefit to fourth quarter reported operating income growth. Importantly, despite 150 basis points of headwinds from the VIZIO acquisition and lapping leap year as well as higher-than-expected claims expense, we still expect to grow operating income faster than sales for the year, which aligns with our longer-term financial framework.

For Q4, our operating income guide reflects the timing shift of Flipkart's BBD event as well as the lapping of wage investments in Sam's Club U.S. Business mix will continue to be a margin benefit and we expect merchandise category mix to continue to be a headwind.

For adjusted EPS, we expect the full year to be in a range of $2.58 to $2.63 with Q4 in a range of $0.67 to $0.72.

The consumer environment remains dynamic, and we continue to monitor customer and member behavior alongside tracking the macro environment. We're entering Q4 with strong momentum, healthy inventory and a clear focus on our value proposition; price, convenience and a broad assortment.

I'd like to extend my gratitude to our associates who are serving our customers and members every day during a busy holiday season. I'd also like to share that we're excited to announce that our stock listing will be moving to NASDAQ, aligning with the people-led tech-powered approach of our long-term strategy. Walmart is setting a new standard for omnichannel retail by integrating automation and AI to build smarter, faster and more connected experiences for customers while enabling our associates to deliver even greater value at scale. We are appreciative of our long partnership with such a storied institution as the New York Stock Exchange, but we're excited about partnering with NASDAQ on this next chapter of our growth story.

Lastly, I'd like to say a couple of comments about our leadership change. I think I speak for many people at Walmart when I say that it has been the honor of my career to work alongside Doug. His mark will forever be on Walmart. This company would not be what it is today without his leadership. Doug, we will miss you. At the same time, I can't think of a better leader to hand over the reins to than John. John was the first person on the Walmart management team that I had the opportunity to meet several years before coming here, and he's a big reason why I am at Walmart today. Every company should be so fortunate to have such a capable and qualified leader to transition to. John, you have 2.1 million associates standing behind you as you lead us in this next chapter. We're now ready to take your questions.