Warby Parker Inc. (WRBY) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Jaclyn Berkley - Head of Investor Relations
Neil Blumenthal - Co-Founder, President, Co-CEO & Co-Chair
David Gilboa - Co-Founder, Co-CEO & Co-Chair and Principal Financial Officer and Accounting Officer
Joshua Truppo

Conference Call Participants

Mark Altschwager - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Oliver Chen - TD Cowen, Research Division
Savannah Sommer - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Anthony Chukumba - Loop Capital Markets LLC, Research Division
Brandon Cheatham - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Janine Hoffman Stichter - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Matt Koranda - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to today's Warby Parker Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Bailey, and I will be your moderator for today. [Operator Instructions] I'd now like to pass the conference over to Jaclyn Berkley, Vice President of Investor Relations at Warby Parker. Jaclyn, please go ahead.

Jaclyn Berkley
Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Here with me today are: Neil Blumenthal and Dave Gilboa, our Co-Founders and Co-CEOs; alongside Josh Truppo, Vice President of Financial Planning and Analysis.

Before we begin, we have a couple of reminders. Our earnings release and slide presentation are available on our website at investors.warbyparker.com. During this call and in our presentation, we will be making comments of a forward-looking nature. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of various risks and uncertainties.

For more information about some of these risks, please review the company's SEC filings, including the section titled Risk Factors in the company's latest annual report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are based on information as of November 6, 2025, and except as required by law, we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.

Additionally, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are in addition to and not a substitute for measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. A reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures can be found in this morning's press release and our slide deck available on our IR website.

And with that, I'll pass it over to Neil to kick us off.

Neil Blumenthal
Co-Founder, President, Co-CEO & Co-Chair

Thank you, Jaclyn, and good morning, everyone. Q3 was a strong quarter on many fronts, reflecting both top line acceleration and significant progress towards our long-term profitability goals. Net revenue grew 15.2% year-over-year, driven by 20% growth in retail revenue. Adjusted gross margin was 54.2% and adjusted EBITDA grew approximately 50% to $25.7 million, representing an 11.6% adjusted EBITDA margin and 260 basis points of year-over-year expansion, our highest quarterly expansion in the last 2 years.

It was also a quarter that reflected shifting consumer trends, particularly within our single vision and contacts customer base, which tends to skew younger, while we have seen more resiliency from our progressives customers. We entered the quarter with strong momentum. July and August represented the strongest 2-month period of the year before trends moderated in September and have remained consistent. We saw a mix shift within glasses that weighed on average selling price, while contacts growth decelerated as broader consumer sentiment softened.

Performance remained consistent on a 2-year stack basis, even as we lapped an acceleration in growth last year. Volume growth remained healthy, and we delivered adjusted EBITDA profitability ahead of our guidance on lower-than-planned revenue, underscoring the adaptability of our business and our team's strong execution. Based on the trends we've seen since September, we are reaffirming our 2025 adjusted EBITDA outlook and raising our adjusted EBITDA margin expectations, reflecting continued operational discipline and AI-driven productivity gains even as we take a more measured view on revenue given the current macro environment. And as we look beyond 2025, we're incredibly excited about what's next.

We believe we are entering Warby Parker's third act. Our first act was to establish one of the first made-on-the-Internet lifestyle brands. We launched with features in GQ and Vogue and pioneered how to sell glasses online. Our second act was characterized by our expansion into bricks and mortar, becoming the industry's first true omnichannel retailer while entering holistic vision care by providing eye exams and contacts. And now we're entering our third act, defined by innovation through AI.

We plan to leverage AI to develop new products like AI glasses, to enhance our customer and patient experience like our homegrown first true to scale virtual try-on that now encompasses features like glasses eraser and adviser and to drive productivity and accelerate EBITDA expansion. We previously announced that we'll be working with Google to bring intelligent eyewear to market and are excited to share that we're partnering with Samsung as well.

We believe that Samsung's innovation in hardware and their mobile device ecosystem, combined with Google's leadership in AI and Warby Parker's strength in design, eye care and customer experience unlock enormous potential to create beautifully designed intelligent eyewear that seamlessly integrates into everyday life. We look forward to sharing more details in the coming months.

Dave and I just got back from Colorado, where we hosted our annual One Vision Summit. For several days, we brought together over 500 retail leaders and optometrists across our team for strategizing, training and team building. We shared our vision to leverage AI to develop new products, enhance the customer experience and drive productivity. We walked away feeling energized and inspired by their ideas, their camaraderie and their passion for delivering best-in-class customer experiences, which is paramount as we head into our busiest time of the year.

Our retail leaders and doctors typically join Warby Parker because of our track record of innovation and best-in-class technology, and they have grown accustomed to our rapid growth and are the most tech-forward leaders in the category. It's events like our One Vision Summit that makes us more confident than ever in the foundation we're building for the next chapter of Warby Parker. We operate in a large and resilient market with an unmatched value proposition and believe we are well positioned to continue taking market share for many years and decades to come.

Our long-term priorities remain unchanged, but our ambitions have only grown. We continue to make meaningful progress in our core business, including achieving significant leverage in our expense base while also investing in AI glasses, an opportunity that will expand our TAM beyond traditional glasses and define the next era of our brand.

I'd like to call out a few Q3 highlights that demonstrate our ability to continue on our path of sustainable growth. We delivered our highest glasses volume growth of the year alongside our ninth consecutive quarter of accelerated active customer growth. Retail and especially our eye care business were bright spots with record retail productivity and our largest ever quarter for new store openings, including our first 5 Target shop-in-shops.

We also completed a major system upgrade in our optical labs to support future growth, faster delivery times and enable us to eventually fulfill AI glasses. We expanded the use of AI across our operations to improve efficiency and empower our teams to spend more time with customers.

We're confident in our ability to navigate the near-term environment while we embark on our next act, one defined by even more personalized experiences, intelligent eyewear and a relentless focus on profitable and sustainable growth. As we head into our busiest season, our teams are focused on what we can control, delivering the exceptional customer experience and remarkable value that have come to define Warby Parker.

Before Josh walks through our financials and guidance, Dave will recap the drivers of our Q3 performance.

David Gilboa
Co-Founder, Co-CEO & Co-Chair and Principal Financial Officer and Accounting Officer

Thanks, Neil. As we move into our next act, we remain excited about the opportunities ahead in our core business. Our Q3 performance demonstrates our commitment to driving sustainable growth and steady progress toward achieving our long-term strategic goals. I will now speak to our 4 primary growth drivers this quarter, beginning with the drivers behind our ninth consecutive quarter of accelerating active customer growth.

We ended Q3 with 2.7 million active customers, an increase of 9.3% on a trailing 12-month basis with average revenue per customer of $320, up 4.8% year-over-year. Our retail channel remains our primary growth engine, and we continue to see strong customer acquisition through our stores.

Our marketing strategy continues to balance disciplined performance marketing with thoughtful investments that build long-term brand awareness. To drive near-term transactions, our flexible media model allows us to allocate capital in real time to where we're seeing the strongest efficiencies, such as streaming and direct mail. To build community and brand affinity at the local level, we continue to host creative localized programs like our book Report series, which brings notable authors like Nighttime Grammy Award winner, Mark Ronson, into our stores for engaging events and conversations with customers.

At the same time, we continue to invest in top-of-the-funnel initiatives, including our 3-year partnership with Arch Manning, a glasses wear since age 3 and the Warby Parker customer since middle school. This partnership has allowed us to participate in national linear media and connect with a younger demographic, particularly in key markets across the Southeast.

Our "It Must Be the Glasses" campaign featuring Arch has been a fun way to bring our literary focused brand personality into the sporting world and highlight Arch's authentic connection to our brand. It's been very well received, helping broaden our audience and drive meaningful impressions. We're pleased to see consistency and stability in our customer acquisition costs even as we've increased our marketing investments. And by sunsetting our Home Try-on program, we will have even more flexibility to invest in awareness driving initiatives like these.

Meanwhile, customers utilizing insurance benefits with us continue to grow in Q3 with Versant lives ramping in line with expectations ahead of the typical year-end increase in benefit usage. Insurance customers remain among our highest value cohorts, spending more on initial purchases, selecting progressives at higher rates and returning more frequently. We're continuing to highlight this message in stores and across our creative to increase awareness that customers can use both their in-network and out-of-network benefits at Warby Parker. Finally, we're pleased to report consistent revenue retention metrics across cohorts with revenue retention of approximately 50% over 24 months and over 100% over 48 months, underscoring the loyalty of our customer base.

The next driver of Q3 performance we'll speak to is the acceleration we drove in our glasses business. Glasses grew 13% year-over-year, up from approximately 10% in the first half of 2025, driven by both healthy unit growth and average selling price. In Q3, we launched 5 new collections and continue to expand our lens portfolio. Highlights include our Tortoise Color Block collection starting at $95, which demonstrates our ability to deliver exceptional design at our core price point and the Strato Series starting at $195, featuring elevated Italian construction with etched metal layered between crystal acetates. We also introduced new sun and light responsive lens colors. Newness across both frames and lenses continues to drive customer engagement and repeat purchasing.

We continue to be pleased with how customers have responded to the pricing actions we took earlier this year, primarily in progressives and lens add-ons. While we see strong and consistent adoption of lens enhancements and add-ons, our $95 frame styles outperformed relative to higher price points, which impacted average selling price for the quarter. While recent category growth has relied on price increases, we believe our focus on designing stylish products and delivering exceptional value and experiences positions us to grow both market share and customer loyalty over the long term.

The third driver of our Q3 growth was the strength of our highly productive store base. Retail revenue grew 20% year-over-year, driven by a 16% new store expansion over the same period and continued healthy growth of our stores opened 12 months or more, consistent with the color we've provided on prior calls. In Q3, we opened 15 new stores, including our 300th store at Brookfield Place in Manhattan and our first 5 shop-in-shops at Target. In total, this represented the highest number of openings we've completed in a single quarter.

We opened stores in 12 suburban markets, including in San Diego, California; Arlington, Texas; and Jacksonville, Florida, and we see significant opportunities to continue infilling underpenetrated markets like these. More than half of the major metropolitan areas where we operate still have only one store, giving us a meaningful opportunity to expand within existing markets while continuing to enter new ones.

A complementary part of our strategy to continue infilling markets is our partnership with Target. We're really pleased with how the first 5 shop-in-shops turned out. Each is a beautifully designed, fully enclosed space that brings the Warby Parker experience to life across several markets in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Looking ahead to next year, you should expect us to open a similar number of locations as we continue testing in-store placement and markets. Our focus remains on ensuring these locations deliver a consistent Warby Parker experience while helping drive brand awareness and reach new customers.

I want to take a moment to highlight our store teams, many of whom we had the pleasure of seeing last week, as Neil mentioned. We're fortunate to have experienced leaders across our retail organization with roughly 60% of our current store leaders having been promoted into their roles. We believe that our ability to attract, develop and retain great talent sets us apart and remains a key driver of our retail success going forward.

As we look across our differentiated omnichannel model, we're also seeing clear benefits from our densification strategy in that markets with the highest number of stores frequently have the highest e-commerce growth driven by greater brand awareness and customer engagement across channels.

As we shared on our last call, we're evolving how we serve customers across channels as we expand our physical footprint and invest in AI-driven tools and have decided to sunset our Home Try-on program by the end of the year. Beyond creating a more seamless customer experience, the shift also allows us to streamline our marketing messages. While still early days, we continue to see healthy year-over-year growth in direct e-com frame purchases as the Home Try-on headwind diminishes.

We're encouraged by the engagement and conversion we're seeing from AI-powered tools like Advisor, which gives us confidence in our ability to drive the channel long term. Lastly, we continue to expand our holistic vision care offerings as part of our broader strategy to serve all of our customers' needs.

Contacts remained a healthy contributor to growth in Q3, but moderated in the months of September and October. In Q3, contacts grew 21% year-over-year and represented 11.5% of revenue, consistent with the prior quarter, yet well below the approximately 20% industry mix average, underscoring the significant runway ahead. As part of our ongoing evaluation of how to best serve customers, we made the decision to retire Scout, our private label contacts brand.

Scout helped us successfully enter the contacts category, which we've since expanded to include dozens of leading third-party brands that provide customers with more choice, value and convenience. Our decision to sunset offerings like Scout and Home Try-on reflect our focus on aligning with customer preferences and evolving technology while also simplifying operations and positioning us to be more agile with less inventory going forward.

Eye exams also remain an important driver of growth. We expanded exam capacity across our growing retail footprint. And in Q3, our eye exam business grew 41% year-over-year to account for 6.5% of total revenue. Eye exams drive traffic, conversion and average revenue per customer, given roughly 75% of glasses industry-wide are purchased at the same location as the exam. Today, the majority of our customers still bring prescriptions from external providers, highlighting a significant long-term opportunity to capture more of the vision care journey. We also scaled retinal imaging across more locations, an offering that enhances the clinical experience and reflects our commitment to accessible high-quality vision care.

Alongside the progress we made across the business this quarter, making a positive impact remains at the heart of what we do. Through our People's Project program, we continue to provide free eyeglasses to students in need in more than 40 U.S. cities. With the support of our partners, we're proud to announce that we'll be doubling the number of students served in Baltimore, Newark, New Jersey and Washington, D.C. and expanding our reach in Boston to serve the entire public school district. We plan to distribute an additional 40,000 glasses to students in these communities over the next 2 years.

And now I'll pass it over to Josh Truppo, VP of Financial Planning and Analysis.

Joshua Truppo

Thanks, Neil and Dave. It's my pleasure to join you all today on our third quarter earnings call. I'll begin with a detailed review of our third quarter performance. Then I'll outline our updated guidance for the full year, including our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2025.

Starting first with Q3. Revenue for the third quarter came in at $221.7 million, up 15.2% year-over-year. Retail revenue increased 20.2% year-over-year with store count up 16.4% and e-commerce revenue up 3.2% year-over-year. I'd like to add a bit more context around the shape of the quarter.

We entered Q3 with strong momentum with July and August marking our strongest 2-month stretch of the year before trends began to moderate in September and have remained consistent. During this time, our frame mix shifted towards our entry-level $95 offering. And while higher-priced lens modifications and progressives remained strong, this had an overall impact on average selling price for glasses.

Additionally, we saw slower growth in our contacts business amid broader macro dynamics. These factors coincided with stronger year-over-year comparisons given the acceleration we saw last year, though results remained stable on a 2-year stack basis.

Looking at customers, we finished Q3 with 2.66 million active customers on a trailing 12-month basis, representing a consistent acceleration in growth to 9.3% year-over-year. We've now seen sequential improvements in year-over-year active customer growth for the past 9 quarters, reflecting the positive returns from both new and existing stores, marketing investments and a range of strategic initiatives.

Average revenue per customer increased 4.8% year-over-year on a trailing 12-month basis to $320. This was driven by factors, including our selective price increases in glasses at the end of April, a higher mix of premium lenses like progressives and continued growth in both contact lens and eye exam sales, partially offset by the mix shift into lower price point frames we described earlier.

Progressives penetration within prescription units increased 30 basis points from 22% in Q3 2024 to 22.3% in Q3 2025. By product, glasses revenue growth accelerated to roughly 13% year-over-year, with contact lenses up 21% and eye exams up 41% year-over-year. Contacts increased from 10.9% of revenue in Q3 2024 to 11.5% in Q3 2025. Eye exams increased from 5.3% of revenue in Q3 2024 to 6.5% in Q3 2025.

From a channel mix perspective, retail represented 73% of our overall business in Q3. We opened 15 new stores in the quarter, ending the period with 313 stores. This represents 44 net new stores opened over the course of the last 12 months. Retail productivity was 103.8% versus the same period last year. As a reminder, we define retail productivity as the year-over-year change in retail sales per store for the average number of stores opened in the period.

We are pleased to be reporting our highest quarterly retail productivity since 2022, which was driven by stronger glasses growth paired with continued momentum in our contacts and exams businesses in stores. For stores that have been opened greater than 12 months, we observed an acceleration in year-over-year growth in Q3. Our new stores continue to deliver strong unit economics, performing in line with our target of 35% 4-wall margin and 20-month paybacks. For stores opened more than 12 months, average revenue per store was $2.2 million and performance was in line with our target 35% 4-wall margins.

We continue to be pleased with both these new and existing store metrics, which reflect the overall health and productivity of our store fleet. Over the course of the past year, nearly every new store included an eye exam suite, bringing our total number of stores with eye exam capabilities to 275 stores or 88% of our total fleet.

Moving on to gross margin. As a reminder, our gross margin is fully loaded and accounts for a range of costs, including frames, lenses, optical labs, customer shipping, optometrist salaries, store rents and the depreciation of store build-outs. Our gross margin also includes stock-based compensation expense for our optometrists and optical lab employees. For comparability, I will speak to gross margin, excluding stock-based compensation.

Third quarter adjusted gross margin came in at 54.2% compared to 54.6% in the year ago period. The year-over-year decrease was driven by tariff-related headwinds in glasses, sales growth of contact lenses and customer shipping. These impacts were partially offset by the selective price increases in glasses and increased penetration of progressive lenses and other lens enhancements. We were particularly pleased with the margin expansion in our eye exam business, which has become less of a headwind over time as we become more efficient with doctor coverage and utilization.

Shifting gears to SG&A. As a reminder, adjusted SG&A excludes noncash costs like stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted SG&A in the third quarter came in at $108 million or 48.7% of revenue. This compares to Q3 2024 adjusted SG&A of $100.6 million or 52.3% of revenue, representing 360 basis points of leverage year-over-year. Within adjusted SG&A, marketing spend was $29 million or 13.1% of revenue compared to $23.7 million or 12.3% of revenue in Q3 2024.

With marketing spend in the low teens as a percent of revenue, disciplined expense management drove leverage across our non-marketing adjusted SG&A categories which includes salaries for our stores and customer experience employees and general corporate expenses, including our headquarter salaries and general operating expenses to support the business.

Non-marketing adjusted SG&A improved by 440 basis points from 40% of revenue in Q3 2024 to 35.6% of revenue in Q3 2025. Non-marketing adjusted SG&A grew just 3% year-over-year. This reflects our commitment to continued cost discipline and drove flow-through in Q3 above the high end of our guidance range.

Turning now to adjusted EBITDA. In the third quarter, adjusted EBITDA grew approximately 50% year-over-year to $25.7 million, representing an adjusted EBITDA margin of 11.6%. This compares to adjusted EBITDA of $17.3 million or 9% of revenue in the year ago period, reflecting expansion of 260 basis points. As discussed, this was driven by non-marketing SG&A leverage.

Turning now to our balance sheet. We ended the quarter with a strong cash position of $280 million. While free cash flow during the quarter was impacted by the timing of vendor payments and inventory purchases, we have generated $36 million in free cash flow year-to-date and anticipate full year 2025 will be our third consecutive year of positive and accelerating free cash flow.

As it relates to capital allocation, we will continue to deploy capital deliberately to support our growth in operations. We also have a credit facility of $120 million, expandable to $175 million that is undrawn other than $4 million outstanding for letters of credit.

Turning to our outlook for 2025. Starting briefly with an update on tariffs. We've successfully executed the mitigation strategies we outlined on our prior [ quarterly ] calls, including supplier diversification, selective price adjustments and disciplined expense management. These actions have offset the impact of tariffs and demonstrate our team's ability to adapt quickly in what remains a dynamic environment. Together, they contributed to incremental flow-through in Q3 and give us confidence to hold our full year adjusted EBITDA guidance.

Given recent trends and the more uncertain consumer environment, we're taking a more conservative view on top line for the remainder of the year, which assumes that September and October trends persist. We remain committed to delivering adjusted EBITDA dollars in line with our prior outlook and now expect to deliver higher year-over-year adjusted margin expansion on a modestly lower revenue outlook.

We now expect net revenue between $871 million and $874 million, representing approximately 13% growth year-over-year, adjusted EBITDA of $98 million to $101 million, representing an adjusted EBITDA margin of 11.3% to 11.6% and 180 to 210 basis points of year-over-year expansion; 45 new stores, including the 5 Target shop-in-shops that opened in Q3. We continue to expect full year gross margin in the mid-50s, reflecting stability in our ongoing tariff mitigation strategies discussed earlier. Finally, we expect stock-based compensation as a percentage of net revenue to be in the 2% to 4% range for the full year, consistent with our long-term target.

For Q4 2025, we're guiding to the following: net revenue between $211 million and $214 million, which represents growth of approximately 11% to 12% year-over-year; adjusted EBITDA of $18 million to $21 million, representing a 9.2% margin at the midpoint of our range or 190 basis points of year-over-year expansion. Similar to our year-to-date results, we anticipate adjusted EBITDA margin expansion in Q4 will be driven by leverage within non-marketing SG&A, supported by ongoing efficiencies in staffing our store and customer experience teams and achieving continued leverage in corporate expenses while keeping marketing spend consistent.

With that, Neil, Dave and I are pleased to take your questions. Operator, please open the line for Q&A.