WeRide Inc. (WRD) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 24, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Xu Han - Founder, Chairman & CEO
Xuan Li - CFO & Head of International

Conference Call Participants

Tim Hsiao - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Alex Yao - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Ming-Hsun Lee - BofA Securities, Research Division
Liping Zhao - China International Capital Corporation Limited, Research Division
Paul Gong - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to WeRide's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note that today's event is being recorded. The company's unaudited financial and operating results were released by Newswire earlier today and are currently available online. Joining us today are WeRide's Founder, Chairman and CEO, Dr. Tony Han; and CFO and Head of International, Ms. Jennifer Li. Before we continue, I would like to refer you to the safe harbor statement in the company's earnings press release, which also applies to this call as today's call that includes forward-looking statements, including WeRide's strategies and future plans.

These forward-looking statements are made under the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The company's actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, and please refer to Risk Factors section of the company's Form 20-F filed with the SEC and announcements on the website of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for the full disclosure of these risk factors.

The company does not assume any obligations to update any forward-looking statements, except as required under applicable law. Please note that all numbers stated in management's prepared remarks are in RMB terms, and we will discuss non-IFRS measures today, which are more truly explained and reconciled to the most comparable measures reported in the company's earnings release and filings with the SEC and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. With that, I'll now turn the call over to the company's Founder, Chairman and CEO, Dr. Tony Han. Please go ahead, sir.

Xu Han
Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thank you. Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I would like to begin by highlighting some of the key milestones we achieved this past quarter. Q3 was a period of extraordinary progress for WeRide. Most notably, we made history in Abu Dhabi by securing the world's first city level fully driverless robotaxi commercial permit outside the United States. And we will begin -- actually we have already started the driverless operation through Uber, which I'm going to detail in the later slides this week. With our recent expansion into Belgium and our inaugural driverless robotaxi license in Switzerland, WeRide has become the only company with autonomous driving permits for 8 countries.

By October, we have developed L4 fleet in 11 countries and more than 30 cities with over 1,600 L4 level autonomous driving vehicles in operation worldwide. Now let's take a look at our third quarter accomplishments. So let's turn into Abu Dhabi slides. Okay. Next slide, please. So as mentioned earlier, WeRide has been officially approved to provide full driverless commercial robotaxi service in the UAE's capital, Abu Dhabi. This landmark authorization removes the requirements for in-car safety officer and demonstrates the regulators' strong confidence in our technology. Following this approval, WeRide and Uber jointly launched the region's first fully driverless [wire charging] robotaxi service this week. starting from Yas Island and with a citywide rollout underway.

And next page. Our commercial operation at Abu Dhabi has begun in last December. Our service now covers roughly 50% of the city's core area. In half of 12 hours, our single vehicle can complete up to 20 trips per day. I think this is a quite exciting progress. In the third midterm -- in the midterm, we aim to extend our service hours to 24/7, increase vehicle utilization to more than 25 trips per day and improve human-to-vehicle ratio to 1:10. These numbers will lead us to a very healthy unit economics. We believe Abu Dhabi will set a global benchmark for large-scale and commercially viable robotaxi operation. And with all of these numbers, I think our unit economics is very, very healthy and can be profitable. So I just want to emphasize this kind of breakthrough is quite exciting, and we work so hard for a whole year to achieve this full driverless robotaxi operation in Abu Dhabi.

And this is the first city level outside of United States who are capable -- first city level robotaxi service out of the United States, and it is actually provided through Uber platform. So with all of these important factors, this is unparalleled, and we are so exciting that we are making history. Now let's talk about our current operation in Dubai. In September, we secured a self-driving vehicle trial permit from Dubai's Roads and Transport Authority and have begun road testing for our driverless operation in Dubai. Our goal is to launch supervised trial on Uber this year and the driverless commercial operation in the year of 2026. I mean, next year, we are going to provide driverless robotaxi service in Dubai.

Next page, please. Then we are going to talk our current operation in Saudi Arabia. In Riyadh, we began offering robotaxi rides through Uber in October, making our robotaxi service first and only publicly accessible robotaxi service in the Kingdom. With our development in the 3 largest cities in Middle East, that is Riyadh, Abu Dhabi and Dubai, we have more than 100 robotaxi vehicles in the Mid East region. The launch of driverless operation in Abu Dhabi is paving the way to scale the fleet to more than 500 vehicles by next year and tens of thousands by 2030. So we are very excited and very confident -- and very confident and very optimistic about our full driverless robotaxi operation in Middle East. But that's not only our operation region.

And I want to talk about East Asia and Europe. First, in Singapore, together with Grab, we received approval from the Land Transport Authority for both robotaxi and robobus in the area called Punggol District. We plan to increase our AV test volume by 4x by the end of this year. We also are integrating our technology into Grab's fleet management and routing system so that in future, we can provide driverless robotaxi through Grab in Singapore, just what we have done in Abu Dhabi through Uber. Actually, this -- all of these efforts will pay the groundwork for commercial service in the next phase. And then let's talk about Switzerland. In Europe, the expansion in Switzerland continues to lead our robotaxi deployment. We received the country's first driverless robotaxi license, enabling our autonomous operation in the Furttal region. A full driverless public service is expected to be launched in the first half of 2026. That is our current operation in Europe and in East Asia and Singapore.

And now let's talk about China. In our China market, we continue to expand and innovate. As we scale our commercial fleet, we also launched a 24/7 driverless commercial service in Huangpu District at Guangzhou. This is an area of 150 square kilometers. As of October, we have deployed more than 300 robotaxi in Guangzhou and over 100 in Beijing. All -- for all of this service, you can hail a driverless robotaxi in this region through our WeRide Go app. User value is kept very close to our heart, and we recently introduced China's first free pickup and drop-off feature for robotaxi service we called PU/DO service, allowing our system to intelligently recommend optimal boarding locations. This greatly improved both operational flexibility and user experience, which is well captured by our operational data.

In November, each robotaxi completed up to 25 daily trips in Guangzhou and 23 in Beijing, which is a clear evidence of accelerated adoption. And then this is our current exciting progress about robotaxi. Next, let's talk about our other applications. First, robobus. Okay. Next page. our robobus obtained Belgium's first Level 4 test permit, and we launched our operation in Leuven, making Belgium the 11th country covered by our service. In Guangzhou, after serving more than 1 million passengers since 2021, we received an offer -- received an order for another -- for additional 100 midsized robobuses. This is a very exciting achievement. Actually, this is a newly developed robobus. In Hong Kong, we established a partnership with Kwoon Chung Bus Holding to deploy more than 500 Level 4 vehicles over the next 3 years. And for our L2+ Level ADAS system, WeRide and Bosch achieved a major milestone in November with the start of production of WePilot 3.0. This is an end-to-end system.

It's just like what Tesla has achieved through their FSD system. Our WePilot is totally comparable to what Tesla can do with FSD. The WePilot 3.0 will debut with the refreshed Chery EXEED ES and ET model and existing owners will receive OTA upgrades. With this kind of new feature, every owner of Chery EXEED ES and ET can enjoy the experience of Tesla's FSD. With this exceptional end-to-end system, WePilot has also been selected as the major ADAS system provider by Guangzhou Automotive Group, GAC, for several of their passenger car models. So that part is actually a very exciting progress, demonstrating WeRide can not only capable of doing L4 level robotaxi, but also are capable of doing L2++ level ADAS for massive production car. And this page actually shows -- summarize our footprint in the global. Actually, WeRide's strategy prioritized a balanced development in the global market.

I want to explain this slide a little bit. You can see like in these 11 countries, we have different levels of operation. We have tested or we can operate it without a driver. So they are showing in the legend. So you see our multiproduct offering has maximized the value of our strategy, making us the only company whose technology is available in the 11 countries shown here. So we actually have a wide spectrum of applications and service available for the global market. Next, let me discuss about the backbone of our technology. This is called WeRide One Universal platform. By starting from supporting L4 applications alone in early days, WeRide One has grown gradually grown into a more powerful platform that empowers the full spectrum from L2 to L4 while continuously breeding new tools and systems.

So one of the most preeminent is our world model, WeRide Genesis. So in our Genesis model, you can see Genesis is a new platform and will allow autonomous vehicles to be tested in a digital twin of the real world safely, efficiently and at a large scale. It features the data loop, algorithm loop and simulation validation loops that are essential for scalable autonomy. This is our world model, and it's seamlessly integrated with our end-to-end system. So this is a unique technology advantage. Our world model can be seamlessly integrated into end-to-end ADAS system and our L4 system can leverage on the data we collected from our L2 level data. So this Genesis form as the core flywheel, actually, we call it a double flywheel. We can actually leverage on L2++ level massive production car data to improve our robotaxi. In turn, our robotaxi data with redundancy can help us to boost the performance of our ADAS system.

I want to emphasize in this world, there's only one company WeRide can do so. On one hand side, we have a large-scale robotaxi fleet make WeRide capable of doing leading robotaxi service like Waymo and other companies like they can do in the U.S. so that we can actually capture all the characteristics of full driverless operation. At the same time, WeRide to apply [indiscernible] 3.0 and very advanced ADAS system comparable to the FSD of Tesla, and we can leverage on mass production car data and collect all this kind of data in a very broad sense in all kinds of scenario to help us to improve the performance of robotaxi.

We believe we can combine the benefits of L4 and L2+. This hybrid architecture enhance adaptability, reliability, safety and transparency, ultimately enabling robust commercial deployment. We look forward to sharing more about this advantage soon. In summary, Q3 was a quarter of exceptional execution. We expand our global leadership, and we translated technology innovation into commercial reality. With that, I will hand over the call over to our CFO, Jennifer, to discuss our financial performance. Jennifer, please go ahead to discuss about the financial numbers.

Xuan Li
CFO & Head of International

Thank you, Tony. Hello, everyone. Before we dive into the third quarter financials, I want to highlight that all figures are in RMB and comparisons are year-over-year unless otherwise stated. Now let's discuss our third quarter financial performance. We delivered total revenue of RMB 171 million with a year-over-year growth of 144%, driven by our continued fleet expansion and increase in service penetration. The revenue growth also reflects the significant milestone we have achieved during this quarter, supported by our advanced technology, robust deployment and operational capabilities. Our revenue came from both product revenue and service revenue. Product revenue delivered strong growth of 428% to RMB 79 million in this quarter, an encouraging result driven by the increased sale of our robotaxi and robobuses. Service revenue grew 67% to RMB 92 million in Q3, supported by an increase of RMB 29 million from intelligent data service and an increase of RMB 8 million in autonomous driving-related operational and technical services.

Service revenue has surpassed product revenue in this quarter, demonstrating a continual growth momentum and healthy business structure. Among our product lines, what really stood out in Q3, same as in the last 2 quarters was our robotaxi businesses. Robotaxi revenue increased 761% year-over-year to RMB 35 million in Q3, accounting for 21% of total revenue in this quarter. With our new federal permits in UAE, we are the first and only robotaxi company that have begun full driverless robotaxi operation in UAE. Removing in-car safety officer is a critical milestone from a financial perspective, which will enable our robotaxi service to achieve unit economic breakeven. The quality of our growth is also compelling. Group level gross profit increased 1,124% to RMB 56 million for the third quarter with a group level gross margin of 33%, demonstrating our industry-leading gross margin as our business continue to grow.

We aim to keep delivering business value along with our globalization strategy. Operating expense decreased 51% to RMB 436 million, with R&D expense accounting for 73% of the total operating expenses. To break down further, R&D expense increased by 24% to RMB 316 million in the third quarter of 2025 compared to the same period of 2024. Excluding share-based compensation, R&D expense grew 39% to RMB 288 million as we further strengthened our global data compliance and advanced R&D efforts for our pre-installed robotaxi. The increase in R&D expense was primarily due to an increase of RMB 31 million in service fee for R&D projects, an increase of RMB 21 million in personnel-related expense from headcount increase and an increase of RMB 23 million in material consumption and depreciation and amortization expenses. Administrative expense decreased by 84% to RMB 100 million in the third quarter of 2025 compared to the same period in 2024.

Excluding share-based compensation, administrative expense increased by 23% to RMB 74 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase of RMB 6 million in professional service fee, mainly related to legal compliance service and an increase of RMB 4 million in personnel costs as we continue to build necessary supporting function to grow our business. Selling expenses increased 23% to RMB 19 million in the third quarter of 2025 compared to the same period of 2024. Excluding share-based compensation, selling expense increased by 36% to RMB 19 million, which was well below the sales increase. Our commitment to R&D is the backbone of our strategy. We will continue to direct our resource there to pioneer the industry innovation and keep building our competitive advantage. Alongside this, we will strategically grow our global team with a clear focus on region that has accelerated the adoption of L4 solutions.

This ensures that we have a world-class talent needed to support our business expansion. Our net loss narrowed by 71% to RMB 307 million in the third quarter of 2025. On a non-IFRS basis, adjusted net loss increased 15% to RMB 276 million, largely due to an ongoing R&D investment and broader operational support required for the expansion of our business. As of September 30, 2025, we had RMB 4.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents and time deposits, RMB 926 million in investment in wealth management products and RMB 18 million in restricted cash. We had short-term bank borrowing of RMB 245 million. Our current liquidity reserve, along with the proceeds from our recent Hong Kong due primary listing in November have enabled us with a resilient position for our R&D-focused strategy and our globalization deployment process.

Our fully driverless robotaxi commercial permitting in Abu Dhabi is not just a local milestone. It's a scalable blueprint for the global industry. It demonstrates a viable path for city level full driverless cooperation outside the U.S. along with the potential for profitable unit economics in major international markets. Our strategy is to scale this model globally. We have the complete package, the technology, the operational experience, a proven safety record and regulatory trust. In the next 5 years, we will achieve large-scale L4 deployment, creating a sustainable business and delivering tremendous value of autonomous driving to the shareholders. With that, operator, we are now ready to take on some questions.