Wintrust Financial Corporation (WTFC) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 21, 2026 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Timothy Crane - CEO, President & Director
David Dykstra - Vice Chairman & COO
Richard Murphy - Vice Chairman & Chief Lending Officer

Conference Call Participants

Jon Arfstrom - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Nathan Race - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Christopher McGratty - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Brendan Nosal - Hovde Group, LLC, Research Division
Jeff Rulis - D.A. Davidson & Co., Research Division
David Long - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Terence McEvoy - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Casey Haire - Autonomous Research Limited
David Chiaverini - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Benjamin Gerlinger - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Jared David Shaw - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Sun Young Lee - TD Cowen, Research Division
Bill Hebel

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to Wintrust Financial Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. A review of the results will be made by Tim Crane, President and Chief Executive Officer. David Dykstra, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer; and Richard Murphy, Vice Chairman and Chief Lending Officer. As part of their reviews, the presenters may make reference to both the earnings press release and the earnings release presentation. [Operator Instructions]

During the course of today's call, Wintrust management may make statements that constitute projections, expectations, beliefs or similar forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated or projected in any such forward-looking statements. The company's forward-looking assumptions that could cause the actual results to differ materially from the information discussed during this call are detailed in our earnings press release and in the company's most recent Form 10-K and any subsequent filings with the SEC.

Also, our remarks may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures. Our earnings press release and earnings release presentation include a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the nearest comparable GAAP financial measure. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I will now turn the conference call over to Mr. Tim Crane.

Timothy Crane
CEO, President & Director

Good morning. And for those of you we haven't seen or talked to recently Happy New Year. Thank you for joining us for the Wintrust Fourth Quarter and Full Year '25 Earnings Call. In addition to the introductions, Latif made, I'm joined by our Chief Financial Officer, Dave Stoehr; and Chief Legal Officer, Kate Boege. As we usually do on these calls, I'll begin the morning with a few highlights. Dave Dykstra will review the financial results. Rich will speak to loan activity and credit performance, and I will return with some summary comments on 2025 and early thoughts on 2026. As always, following our remarks, we'll be happy to take questions.

With that, Wintrust delivered solid performance in 2025. The results reflect our focus on generating strategic and disciplined growth. I'm proud to say our efforts drove record net income for the year. For full year 2025, we reported net income of $824 million, up 19% from $695 million in 2024. Earnings per diluted share was $11.40, up from $10.31 in 2024 and tangible book value increased by over $13 to nearly $89 a share. Total assets at year-end were just over $71 billion.

Our fourth quarter was also strong. Net income was $223 million, also a record up 3% or $7 million from the prior quarter. Solid loan and deposit growth during the quarter and a slightly improved margin led to continued growth in net interest income. Credit quality remains solid and overall noninterest expenses were well managed.

When I look back over the year, I want to highlight 3 things that I am particularly pleased by. First, we delivered disciplined growth at a level above most of our peers with a stable margin. As we've discussed, we are adding new relationships, consumer and commercial that we expect will be with us for years to come as we continue to build the franchise. In fact, in 2025, our steady and consistent approach moved us into third position in deposit market share in the Chicago area, and we showed strong gains in both Wisconsin and West Michigan.

Second, we achieved solid operating leverage. On a percentage basis, net revenue was up 11.2%, 340 basis points higher than our noninterest expense. We did this while investing in the tools, technology and people to both run a bank our size today and to build the foundation for future growth. Lastly, we saw improved Net Promoter Scores that were already best-in-class in both retail and commercial banking in 2025 as our focus on exceptional customer service continues to differentiate us from many of our peers.

Before I turn this over to Dave, I want to call your attention to the charts we include in our press release at the end of each year, showing our 10-year performance on key metrics. What you will see here is the continued consistent performance that we stress with our teams. I'm very proud of these results and how they translate into real value for our shareholders.

Now let me turn this over to Dave.

David Dykstra
Vice Chairman & COO

Great. Thanks, Tim. We finished off 2025 with another quarter of strong loan and deposit growth with both falling within our stated range of mid- to high single digits growth. Specifically, the deposit growth was right at $1 billion during the quarter, representing a 7% increase over the prior quarter on an annualized basis. This deposit growth helped to fund continued strong fourth quarter loan growth of a similar $1.0 billion amount that represented 8% growth on an annualized basis. On a full year basis, loans and deposits grew 11% and 10%, respectively.

Turning to income statement results. This was a very solid operating quarter for Wintrust producing a record level of quarterly net income. Speaking to the major components of the income statement, our net interest income also reached another high record quarterly amount, a $1.1 billion increase in the average earning assets as well as a 4 basis point increase in the net interest margin drove the $16.9 million increase in net interest income over the prior quarter. The net interest margin range from 3.50% to 3.56% during the 4 quarters of 2025 and the 3.54% net interest margin for the fourth quarter fell squarely in that range. I would note that period-end loans were once again higher than the average loans for the fourth quarter, giving us a good start on achieving higher average earning assets in the first quarter of 2026.

The provision for credit losses was relatively consistent with prior quarters remaining in the $20 million to $30 million range experienced in all quarterly periods of 2025 as the overall credit environment and asset quality has remained relatively stable. Regarding other noninterest income and other noninterest expenses, noninterest income totaled $130.4 million in the fourth quarter similar to the $130.8 million recorded in the prior quarter. The very slight decline was impacted by lower security gains. But overall, other than the continued softness in the mortgage revenue it was a solid outcome for noninterest income for the fourth quarter.

As the noninterest expense categories, noninterest expenses totaled $384.5 million in the fourth quarter which represented a slight increase from the $380 million recorded in the prior quarter. Increases in employees' health insurance claims, OREO expenses, travel and entertainment and various other small expense increases were offset somewhat by seasonally lower marketing costs. Overall, expenses were well controlled and within the expected range we discussed on our last call. Additionally, both the quarterly net overhead ratio and the efficiency ratio remained relatively stable during the quarter from the prior quarter.

In summary, I'll reiterate what I said on our last call, with this being another very solid quarter. The company accomplished good loan and deposit growth, a stable net interest margin with a steady outlook, a record level of net interest income and a continued low level of nonperforming assets. Our team delivered net income that was a record for any full fiscal year in the company's history, and we have a positive outlook for continued growth in assets, revenues and earnings.

So with that, I'll conclude my comments and turn it over to Rich Murphy to discuss credit.

Richard Murphy
Vice Chairman & Chief Lending Officer

Thanks, Dave. As Tim and Dave both noted, credit performance continued to be very solid in the fourth quarter. As detailed on Slide 7, loan growth of approximately $1 billion came from a number of different categories. Commercial real estate loans grew by $322 million. Our mortgage warehouse team grew their outstanding by $310 million. The Wintrust Life Finance team had another strong quarter and grew by $265 million. And our leasing and residential mortgage groups also had a very solid quarter.

We believe loan growth for the first quarter, while typically our slowest quarter, will continue to be solid for a number of reasons. Our core C&I and CRE pipelines remain consistent, and we continue to benefit from our unique market positioning in our core markets of Chicagoland, Wisconsin, West Michigan and Northwest Indiana. In addition, we continue to have a very good momentum in a number of our lending verticals, including mortgage warehouse, leasing and premium finance.

From a credit quality perspective, as detailed on Slide 15, we continue to see strong credit performance across the portfolio. This can be seen in a number of metrics. Nonperforming loans increased slightly from $162.6 million or 31 basis points to $185.8 million or 35 basis points, but remained at a very manageable level and in line with levels we had seen in the first half of the year. Charge-offs for the quarter were 17 basis points, down from 19 basis points in the prior quarter. We continue to believe the level of NPLs and charge-offs in the fourth quarter reflect a stable credit environment as evidenced by the chart of historical nonperforming asset levels on Slide 16 and the consistent level in our special mention and substandard loans on Slide 15.

This quarter is another example of our commitment to identify problems early and charging them down where appropriate. Our goal, as always, is to say ahead of any credit challenges. As noted in our last few earnings calls, we continue to be highly focused on our exposure to commercial real estate loans, which comprise roughly 1/4 of our total portfolio. As detailed on Slide 19, we continue to see signs of stabilization during the fourth quarter as CRE NPLs remained at a very low level, decreasing from 0.21% to 0.18%. And CRE charge-offs continue to remain at historically low levels.

On Slide 20, we continue to provide enhanced detail on our CRE office exposure. Currently, this portfolio remained steady at $1.7 billion or 12.1% of our total CRE portfolio and only 3.2% of our total loan portfolio. We monitor this portfolio very closely, and we will continue to perform our deep dive analysis on a quarterly basis. The most recent deep dive analysis showed very consistent results when compared to prior quarters.

Finally, as we have discussed on previous calls, our teams stay in close contact with our customers, and those conversations continue to reflect a measured optimism. With solid visibility into our loan pipelines and continued discipline around our portfolio, we would expect loan growth in 2026 to be within our guidance and portfolio performance in line with our historical experience. That concludes my comments on credit, and I'll turn it back to Tim.

Timothy Crane
CEO, President & Director

Great. Thank you, Rich. Again, really good financial results in 2025. Our primary objective for 2026 is to continue to deliver solid and consistent financial performance. We expect our teams will continue to provide a differentiated level of service to drive organic growth. At the same time, we will continue to invest in the tools, technology and people needed to support that growth. Our targets for 2026 are straightforward. We expect mid- to high single-digit loan growth funded by a similar level of deposit growth as we continue to expand share. Given the current interest rate environment and even with a few rate changes in either direction, we expect the margin to remain relatively stable around 3.5%. We plan to deliver positive operating leverage while continuing to make the important investments that position us for the future.

We expect to see improved noninterest income in our wealth management and service-based fee income businesses and are hopeful for the mortgage market to pick up. We remain focused on our Midwestern footprint, and we'll continue to make the most of opportunities across the United States for our specialty businesses where our expertise and unique solutions give us a competitive advantage. Our pipelines remain solid. And although we have strong momentum going into the year, we are mindful of the typical seasonality that can make our quarterly growth uneven, particularly in the first half of the year. With this in mind, I feel good about our business heading into 2026.

Let me end by saying that we could not generate the results that we do without the dedication and commitment of our Wintrust team. We have the best people in the business, and I want to thank each of our colleagues for all that you do to ensure we deliver results for our clients and our shareholders while we work to drive sustainable growth in the communities we serve. Thank you for joining us this morning, and let me turn it back to Latif for your questions.

