Woodward, Inc. (WWD) Q4 2025 Earnings Call November 24, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Daniel Provaznik - Director of Investor Relations
Charles Blankenship - CEO & Chairman
William Lacey - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Scott Mikus - Melius Research LLC
Scott Deuschle - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Noah Poponak - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Christopher Glynn - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Gavin Parsons - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Michael Ciarmoli - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Gautam Khanna - TD Cowen, Research Division
Louis Raffetto - Wolfe Research, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Woodward, Inc. Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2025 Earnings Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this call is being recorded for rebroadcast [Operator Instructions].

Joining us today from the company are Chip Blankenship, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Bill Lacey, Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Provaznik, Director of Investor Relations.

I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Provaznik.

Daniel Provaznik
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator. We would like to welcome all of you to Woodward's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2025 Earnings Call. In today's call, Chip will comment on our strategies and related markets. Bill will then discuss our financial results as outlined in our earnings release. At the end of our presentation, we will take questions.

For those who have not seen today's earnings release, you can find it on our website at woodward.com. We have included some presentation materials to go along with today's call that are also accessible on the website.

Please note that based on changes in market dynamics, the company has refined its industrial end-to-market presentation to better align certain sales within power generation, transportation and oil and gas. Accordingly, sales for the quarters and years ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, have been reclassified for comparability. The reclassification had no impact on total industrial or the consolidated financial results.

A webcast of this call will be available on our website for 1 year. All references to years in this call are references to the company's fiscal year, unless otherwise stated. I would like to highlight our cautionary statement as shown on Slide 2 of the presentation materials. As always, elements of this presentation are forward looking, including our guidance and are based on our current outlook and assumptions for the global economy and our businesses more specifically. Those elements can and do frequently change.

Our forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties surrounding those elements, including the risks we identify in our filings with the SEC. These statements are made as of today, and we do not intend to update them except as required by law.

In addition, we are providing certain non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. We direct your attention to the reconciliations of non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, which are included in today's slide presentation and our earnings release. We believe this additional financial information will help in understanding our results.

And now I'll turn the call over to Chip.

Charles Blankenship
CEO & Chairman

Thank you, Dan. 2025 was another remarkable year for Woodward. Our team continues to make significant progress, motivated by our purpose to design and deliver energy control systems that our partners count on to power a clean future. Our members' dedication to serving our customers and meeting our commitments to all stakeholders, drove record performance in a number of areas.

Our annual revenue exceeded $3.5 billion for the first time, which was the result of strong performance in both business segments. Aerospace sales increased 14% to record levels with margin expansion of 290 basis points. Industrial delivered healthy sales growth of approximately 10% and excluding China OH and core industrial margin expansion of 110 basis points.

As a result, we delivered all-time high adjusted earnings per share, up nearly 13% compared to the prior year. We achieved these results through a keen focus on our strategy, guided by our values, including integrity, respect and accountability and showing up as humble, yet driven industry leaders as we continue to improve how Woodward serves customers.

Next, I'd like to highlight some notable achievements that created value from last year driven by our pillars of growth, operational excellence and innovation. Starting with growth. Our aerospace team delivered strong growth in defense OEM as predicted and rose to the occasion to deliver on higher-than-expected commercial services demand.

Commercial aircraft delivery rates were lower than originally planned, including impacts of destocking of some Woodward components and systems. In commercial services, our team successfully captured volume growth and pricing opportunities. We experienced more legacy engine MRO volume than planned, coupled with the expected increase in LEAP and GTF demand, which is rising to levels of significant contribution to overall commercial services revenue and earnings. We expect LEAP and GTF repair revenue to surpass legacy repair revenue in late calendar 2026 or early 2027.

For this compare, I'm speaking specifically to the repair activity and excluding spare LRU sales associated with fleet spares provisioning as these sales can be lumpy over short periods of time, but generally correlate with total aircraft delivered over the long term. For example, this past quarter, we received more orders for spare end item than we anticipated with trade and tariff uncertainty contributing to the order surge.

Our Industrial segment delivered double-digit growth in oil and gas and power generation and high single-digit growth in marine transportation. Notably, our industrial services portfolio, ranging from component MRO to Powerplant controls upgrade projects, achieved substantial growth contributing to topline sales and improved mix.

Overall, our strong performance in the fourth quarter and full year 2025 reflects the strength of our strategy and our team's ability to execute. We have increased content on growing platforms in growing markets. We believe we are well positioned for future success. Over the past year, we achieved several key milestones supporting our long-term growth strategy. We completed a strategic transaction to add capability and pedigree to our electromechanical actuation business unit. The acquisition included state-of-the-art horizontal stabilizer trim actuator products on business jet, regional and wide-body commercial aircraft, including the Airbus A350.

This represents our first direct supply contract to Airbus. Integration of the acquired people and products is progressing on plan to capture the full value of the transaction. We won a competitive selection to design and deliver A350 wing spoiler actuators, further increasing our Airbus business portfolio and A350 shipset content. This organic growth project proves our position on a very successful wide-body program as well as prepares us for the next single aisle opportunity by demonstrating our technology, design and industrialization capability.

This win, coupled with our recent acquisition of electromechanical actuation capability, including the A350 HSTA, will raise our total A350 shipset value to approximately $550,000 once we start shipping the wings spoiler actuators, currently scheduled for late calendar 2028.

To that end, we broke ground on our Spartanburg, South Carolina facility construction project in November. This facility is intended to be another showcase advanced manufacturing site, building on our experience with our Rock Cut campus, highly automated and vertically integrated. We will produce the A350 spoiler plus additional aerospace products at this facility.

Within Industrial, our Glatten expansion is ahead of schedule and on track to become operational by mid-2026. This expansion will provide increased capacity to meet the growing demand for data center backup power with enhanced levels of automation, improved flow and higher inventory turns.

To support our growth, we're making increased strategic investments in our company with robust returns for projects that increase capacity and improve productivity with a specific focus on automation.

Turning to operational excellence. We continue to make steady progress. We are focused on improving the fundamentals, and I expect our teams to pick up the pace to improve flow and unlock more productivity in this coming year. Everything starts with safety at Woodward. We continue to roll out our human and organizational performance program to reduce injury risks and increased levels of protection, and we are on track to have HOP in place at all of our sites this calendar year. We're also investing in immersive training for our team leads and first-level supervisors. We are starting to see the benefits as they apply what they've learned, solving problems within cycle time, rebalancing work to optimize labor and create flow and coaching their teams more effectively. I'm excited by our progress so far.

We're also making strides in stabilizing our supply chain. Although we are still experiencing some supplier performance shortfalls, Woodward has made progress in optimizing our supplier network, while helping our strategic suppliers improve their own quality and delivery when required. Industry-wide efforts to stabilize demand signals are benefiting our planning and delivery performance. I'm pleased to see our investments in automation paying off by reducing our demand for labor. We're also realizing the expected benefits in safety, quality, delivery and cost as we refine our project execution and rebalance value streams.

Our automation focus is on jobs with high turnover repetitive or economically challenged tasks and high applied force requirements. Our workforce is embracing these projects and understands the benefit in their daily work. We will continue to invest in automation in 2026 and beyond.

Innovation is alive and well at Woodward, and we made prudent investments in technology development for new military programs, the next single aisle, alternative fuels, automation and services delivery. We continue partnering with our customers to shape how our technology solutions and elevate the value of their next-generation products.

As we look ahead, our priorities for 2026 are centered on strong execution, including capturing continued growth in our markets, driving operational excellence and meeting our customers' evolving expectations.

In Aerospace, we are prepared for increased OEM orders as the aircraft manufacturers stabilize and increase production rates and as defense customers continue to signal strong demand. In commercial services, we are prepared for MRO growth as legacy aircraft continue to fly longer and more LEAP and GTF engines enter their maintenance cycles. We do expect somewhat muted topline growth in commercial services compared to 2025, which benefited from outsized demand for spare end items and some advanced buying.

In Industrial, we are ready to meet sustained demand across our core markets of transportation, power generation and oil and gas and continue to expand our capabilities and global presence in industrial or regional repair, overhaul and upgrade offerings.

Our guidance for 2026 reflects our continued confidence in the growth trajectory across our segments and our continued operational discipline. We are on track to deliver the 3-year sales and earnings targets we set at December 2023 Investor Day. We do expect a modest adjustment to our cumulative free cash flow target as we make the strategic decision to allocate more capital toward organic, high-return growth investments, including automation at multiple sites and the Spartanburg facility.

2025 was a year of record performance and significant progress as we executed on our strategy and delivered on the commitments we've made to shareholders. We intend to build on the strong momentum in 2026 and beyond. And now I'll turn it over to Bill to share more detail around our financial performance in 2025 and our outlook for 2026. Ready Bill?

William Lacey
Executive VP & CFO

I'm ready. Thank you, Chip, and good evening, everyone. As a reminder, all references to years are references to the company's fiscal year unless otherwise stated. And all comparisons are year-over-year unless otherwise stated.

Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2025 totaled $995 million, an increase of 16%. Net sales for 2025 were $3.6 billion, an increase of 7% and the highest on record. Earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2025 were $2.23 compared to $1.36.

Adjusted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2025 were $2.09 compared to $1.41. For 2025, earnings per share were $7.19 compared to $6.01, and adjusted earnings per share were $6.89 compared to $6.11.

At the segment level, our Aerospace segment delivered double-digit sales growth in substantial earnings expansion for both the fourth quarter and full year, driven by strong performance in commercial services and defense OEM. Fourth quarter Aerospace segment sales were $661 million, up 20%. Commercial Services sales increased 40%, while commercial OEM sales were essentially flat.

Defense OEM sales increased 27%, and defense services were up 80%. Aerospace segment earnings for the fourth quarter were $162 million, with margins expanding 520 basis points to 24.4% of segment sales. The improvement was driven by strong price realization and higher volume, partially offset by strategic investments in our Aerospace Manufacturing capabilities as well as inflation.

For the full year, the Aerospace segment delivered record annual sales and earnings. Segment sales were $2.3 billion, up 14%. Commercial Services sales increased 29% reflecting both favorable pricing and higher volumes, supported by sustained high utilization of legacy aircraft and improved throughput by the MRO shops. LEAP and GTF activity also continues to increase, further contributing to commercial services growth.

I do want to note that toward the end of the fiscal year, while underlying commercial services demand remained strong we believe a portion of the growth was influenced by certain customers making advanced purchases to take advantage of a window of trade stability.

Defense OEM sales increased 38%, primarily driven by strong demand for smart Defense. In addition, new JDAM pricing took effect during the fourth quarter, which contributed to the strong year-end performance. Aerospace segment sales growth was partially offset by a 6% decrease in commercial OEM sales. The decrease was largely due to the Boeing work stoppage earlier in the year and our disciplined and measured production ramp that followed along with inventory normalization by air framers that occurred in the second half of the year.

Moving into 2026, we expect these headwinds to ease as air framer production rates increase. Defense services sales were down 2%. As a reminder, while the timing of this business can be lumpy, demand signals remain healthy. Aerospace earnings for 2025 were $507 million or 21.9% of segment sales compared to $385 million or 19% of segment sales. The 290 basis point improvement reflects solid price realization and higher sales volumes, partially offset by strategic investments in manufacturing capabilities unfavorable mix and inflation.

We're making these strategic investments to enable future growth by expanding manufacturing engineers to support our ongoing efforts to increase automation. In addition, we have been increasing and developing our production frontline and team leaders to improve supervision, training and problem solving to drive productivity, improved cycle times and increase output.

Turning to Industrial. As a reminder, my comments reflect the reclassification of certain sales between the end markets that Dan mentioned earlier. Industrial segment sales for the fourth quarter were $334 million, up 11% from $302 million. Our core industrial sales, which excluded the impact of China on-highway, grew 15% in the quarter.

Transportation sales increased 15% and oil and gas sales grew 13%, while power generation grew only 6% due to the impact of the divestiture of our combustion business in the second quarter of this year which had averaged approximately $15 million of quarterly sales. Excluding the impact of the divestiture, power generation sales grew in the mid-teens on a percentage basis.

Industrial segment earnings for the fourth quarter were $49 million or 14.6% of segment sales compared to $38 million or 12.6% of segment sales. Within our core industrial business, margins expanded 330 basis points to 15.2% of core industrial sales, driven by price realization, partially offset by expected inflation and planned strategic investments in manufacturing capabilities.

For 2025, Industrial segment sales were $1.25 billion compared to $1.3 billion, a decrease of 3%. Excluding the impact of China on-highway sales, core industrial sales increased 10% to $1.2 billion compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year. Marine transportation grew 9% driven by both price and volume. As elevated ship build rate supports strong OEM engine demand and lay the groundwork for future services opportunities.

Oil and gas sales grew by 14% as volume growth was driven by greater midstream and downstream gas investment. Power generation, excluding the impact from the divestiture of our combustion business grew 22% driven by our operational improvements and increased output to meet growing demand in various gas turbine systems value stream.

Industrial segment earnings for 2025 and were $183 million or 14.6% of segment sales compared to $230 million or 17.7% of segment sales. This decrease was largely a result of lower sales volume and unfavorable mix, both related to reduced China on-highway demand, partially offset by price realization.

Core industrial margins for 2025 were 15.2% of segment sales, an increase of 110 basis points. This expansion reflects strong operational execution, price realization across the portfolio and our ability to drive incremental margins from higher volumes, partly offset by expected inflation in planned manufacturing investments to further improve productivity.

Nonsegment expenses were $41 million for the fourth quarter of 2025 compared to $31 million. Adjusted nonsegment expenses were $35 million in the fourth quarter compared to $27 million. Nonsegment expenses were $126 million in 2025 compared to $120 million. Adjusted nonsegment expenses were $133 million in 2025 compared to $112 million.

At the consolidated Woodward level, net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2025 was $471 million compared to $439 million. Capital expenditures were $131 million for fiscal 2025 compared to $96 million. The increase in capital expenditure was driven by ongoing investment in automation and production to improve operations and prepare for growth.

In addition, in 2025, we purchased the land for our new facility in Spartanburg, South Carolina and this project is rapidly moving forward. Free cash flow was $340 million for fiscal 2025 compared to $343 million. The decline in free cash flow was primarily due to higher capital expenditures, partially offset by higher earnings.

As of September 30, 2025, debt leverage was 1x EBITDA. During fiscal 2025, as anticipated, we returned over $238 million to stockholders, including $173 million of share repurchases and $65 million in dividends.

In November 2025, we successfully completed our previous 3-year $600 million share repurchase authorization more than 1 year ahead of schedule, reflecting our ongoing commitment to return cash to shareholders. We recently announced a new 3-year sheer repurchase program, authorizing the repurchase of up to $1.8 billion of common stock. This significant expansion reflects the Board's confidence in Woodward's strategy, long-term growth outlook and ability to consistently generate strong free cash flow.

In fiscal year 2026, our guidance assumes returning between $650 million to $700 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. From a capital allocation perspective, we remain committed to a disciplined and balanced approach that fully leverages our strong balance sheet to drive growth. We are investing organically to advance automation and complete our new Spartanburg, South Carolina facility, while also actively evaluating selective returns-driven M&A opportunities. Our strong balance sheet positions us to act decisively when the right opportunities arise.

Now turning to our 2026 guidance. As we look ahead, we remain focused on our value drivers, growth, operational excellence and innovation. Our fiscal 2026 guidance assumes a sustained strong demand environment, supporting continued sales growth and further margin expansion. At the consolidated level, Woodward net sales growth is expected to be between 7% and 12%. Aerospace sales growth is expected to be between 9% and 15%. Industrial sales are expected to grow 5% to 9%. In Aerospace, we expect sales growth across the segment weighted towards OEM driven by a return to growth in commercial OEM and continued strength in defense OEM. Commercial Services growth is expected to moderate as 2025 include a high level of spare LRU purchases as well as the advanced purchases I mentioned earlier.

Defense Services are expected to show modest growth. Industrial sales are anticipated to grow across all of our primary markets. Note, we expect power generation growth to be muted in the first half due to the divestiture of our combustion product line. We anticipate China and highway sales in 2026 to be approximately $60 million, in line with 2025.

Woodward adjusted earnings per share are expected to be between $7.50 and $80 based on approximately 61 million fully diluted weighted average shares outstanding and an effective tax rate of approximately 22%.

Aerospace segment earnings are expected to be 22% to 23% in segment sales. Industrial segment earnings are expected to be 14.5% to 15.5% of segment sales. Adjusted free cash flow is expected to be between $300 million and $350 million. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $290 million, which includes continued investment in automation and approximately $130 million dedicated to the build-out of our new production facility in Spartanburg, South Carolina. The increased spend also includes investment in MRO readiness and the start of a multiyear ERP upgrade project.

Some additional items to help you with your modeling. We expect year-over-year price realization of approximately 5%. Nonsegment expenses should be approximately 3.5% of sales. Consistent with historical trends, we anticipate performance to strengthen across the quarters of fiscal year 2026. Our fiscal 2026 guidance positions us to meet or exceed the long-term sales and earnings commitments for 2024 through 2026 which were established at our last Investor Day.

Free cash flow is expected to be below our 3-year target, reflecting higher strategic investments to support sustained long-term growth. including our new Spartanburg facility. We plan to introduce our next 3-year outlook at our Investor Day in December of 2026.

This concludes our comments on the business and results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2025.

Operator, we are now ready to open the call to questions.