Wynn Resorts, Limited (WYNN) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Julie Cameron-Doe - Chief Financial Officer
Craig Billings - CEO & Director
Brian Gullbrants - President of Encore Boston Harbor

Conference Call Participants

Daniel Politzer - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
John DeCree - CBRE Securities, LLC, Research Division
Stephen Grambling - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
David Katz - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Chad Beynon - Macquarie Research
Steven Wieczynski - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Steven Pizzella - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to the Wynn Resorts Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I will now turn the line over to Julie Cameron-Doe, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Julie Cameron-Doe
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. On the call with me today are Craig Billings and Brian Gullbrants in Las Vegas. Also on the line are Jenny Holaday, Linda Chen and Frederic Luvisutto.

Please note that we've published a presentation to provide more color on the company and recent performance ahead of this call. You can find the presentation on our Investor Relations website. I want to remind you that we may make forward-looking statements under safe harbor federal securities laws, and those statements may or may not come true.

I will now turn the call over to Craig Billings.

Craig Billings
CEO & Director

Thanks, Julie. Good afternoon, and as always, thank you for joining us. I'll jump right into the quarter, and I'll kick off here in Vegas. Wynn Las Vegas continued to see notable gaming market share gains in the quarter, driven by our incredible team and market-leading product and service, resulting in EBITDA growth on a hold adjusted basis of 3% to $211 million against a difficult comp. Demand in the casino was healthy throughout the quarter with solid increases in both drop and handle leading to casino revenues that were up 10%.

Hotel revenue was flat at $187 million, demonstrating that our plan to accept slightly lower occupancy in order to preserve ADR and maximize EBITDA paid off during the quarter. In fact, in August, the property set an all-time monthly EBITDA record.

We also look forward to completing the renovation of the c3 by the end of this quarter and to the opening of Zero Bond -- apologies, sorry for that. Wynn Las Vegas continued to see notable gaming market share gains in the quarter, driven by our incredible team and market-leading product and service, as I mentioned.

More recently, business in the fourth quarter has seen continued momentum with drop and handle both up versus the same prior period last year. We've also seen notable growth in RevPAR and strong retail sales. So with the fourth quarter off to a strong start, we are now turning our attention to F1. You can look at our published room rates for the event and see that we are once again pricing at a significant premium to the market.

Looking further out, our group and convention business looks strong heading into 2026 on pace to grow both room nights and rate over 2025. I do want to note that as we begin the Encore Tower remodel in the spring, we will lose about 80,000 room nights in 2026. We will attempt to pick up some of that in rate, but the remodel will present a slight headwind for 2026. Importantly, we continue to invest in our market-leading assets here in Las Vegas. And ultimately, while macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty remain a consideration, we remain positive on the outlook for our business in Las Vegas.

Turning to Boston. We generated $58 million in EBITDAR. In terms of fundamentals, the business at Encore Boston Harbor remains solid with slot revenues growing over 5% year-on-year and OpEx tightly controlled. More recently, demand in Boston has remained healthy in October with both drop and handle above last year.

Macau also delivered very strong results in the quarter, which were further aided by higher-than-normal VIP hold. The business generated $308 million in EBITDAR, including $23 million of VIP hold benefit. Mass volumes were particularly strong, up 15% year-on-year despite the weather disruption near the end of the quarter.

The cadence of Golden Week was a bit unusual this year and that we saw heavier volumes towards the tail end of the holiday and after the holiday period. Beyond Golden Week, volume metrics in the quarter have been strong with turnover and mass drop both running well ahead of last year. With sustained double-digit market-wide growth in GGR, we continue to be optimistic about the future of Macau.

The premium segment continues to lead the market in Macau. Last quarter, we discussed 2 new projects, an expansion of the Chairman's Club gaming area at Wynn Palace and a refresh of our Wynn Tower rooms at Wynn Macau to ensure we continue to take advantage of this ongoing demand. Both projects are moving along very quickly. The Chairman's Club expansion should be complete ahead of Chinese New Year, and we are already completing the initial floors of the Wynn Tower room renovation now. While we expect some minor disruption into year-end from these projects, once complete, it will further elevate our offerings at both properties.

Wynn Al Marjan Island continues to progress rapidly, and we look forward to welcoming many of you to the site in less than a month. We're pouring the final 2 floors now and are on track to top out the tower ahead of our analyst event in December. We are also pleased to announce our first development on the Marjan land bank adjacent to Wynn Al Marjan, the Janu Al Marjan Island by Aman Group. The Aman team are world-class, and we're delighted to have them as a neighbor.

From a structuring perspective, our JV, the same JV that owns Wynn Al Marjan will own the property and the Aman team will manage the asset. Given the recent success of condo sales in the UAE in general and Ras Al Khaimah in particular, we anticipate our portion of the equity check for the project will be quite small, about $25 million to $50 million. Beyond the stand-alone merits of the transaction, we also expect Janu's high-quality customers will be additive to Wynn Al Marjan Island.

With the Marjan land bank, we have significant additional long-term development opportunities in the UAE. You can see more about this initial development in our quarterly earnings presentation. We remain on track for our targeted opening date of Wynn Al Marjan Island and look forward to showcasing what we believe is the most compelling development opportunity in the industry.

With no competing operations announced to date, Wynn Al Marjan Island will be the only integrated resort in what many analysts are predicting will be a $5 billion-plus GGR market. Our future continues to be bright. The opening of Wynn Al Marjan Island and the free cash flow inflection that it will bring gives us confidence that our best days lie ahead.

I'll now hand it over to Julie to run through some additional details on the quarter.

Julie Cameron-Doe
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Craig. At Wynn Las Vegas, we generated $203.4 million in adjusted property EBITDAR on $621 million of operating revenue during the quarter, delivering an EBITDAR margin of 32.8%. Unfavorable hold negatively impacted EBITDA in the quarter by just under $8 million. OpEx, excluding gaming tax per day, was $4.3 million in the quarter, up 3.1% compared to the prior year due to a bad debt swing and onetime expenses in repairs and maintenance. Otherwise, there were normal course ebbs and flows in OpEx.

Turning to Boston. We generated adjusted property EBITDAR of $58.4 million on revenue of $211.8 million, with an EBITDAR margin of 27.6%. Slot revenues were very strong, up 5% and set a new record for Boston. We maintained our discipline on the cost side with OpEx per day of $1.16 million up 1.9% compared to Q3 2024 despite continued labor cost pressures in that market. The Boston team has continued to do a great job of mitigating union-related payroll increases with cost efficiencies in areas of the business that do not impact the guest experience.

Our Macau operations delivered adjusted property EBITDAR of $308.3 million in the quarter on $1 billion of operating revenue, resulting in an EBITDAR margin of 30.8%. Higher-than-normal VIP hold impacted EBITDA by a little under $23 million in the quarter. OpEx, excluding gaming tax, was approximately $2.75 million per day in Q3, up 7.6% year-on-year, with the increase driven primarily by the Gourmet Pavilion and normal cost of living expenses as we called out last quarter. This quarter, we also saw the variable impact of higher business volumes and about $2.5 million of typhoon-related OpEx.

In terms of CapEx in Macau, last quarter, we initiated 2 projects, as Craig mentioned, an expansion of the Chairman's Club gaming area at Wynn Palace and a refresh of our Wynn Tower rooms at Wynn Macau. And together with other ongoing CapEx projects, we continue to expect to spend $200 million to $250 million in total for 2025.

Moving on to the balance sheet. Our liquidity position remains very strong with global cash and revolver availability of $4.6 billion as of September 30. This was comprised of $2.8 billion of total cash and available liquidity in Macau and $1.7 billion in the U.S. The combination of strong performance in each of our markets globally with our properties generating just under $2.3 billion of LTM adjusted property EBITDAR, together with our robust cash position creates a very healthy consolidated net leverage ratio of just over 4.3x.

Our strong free cash flow and liquidity profile also allow us to continue returning capital to shareholders in both Macau and the U.S. To that end, Wynn Macau paid out approximately $125 million in dividends in Q3 after paying a similar amount in Q2.

In addition, the Wynn Resorts Board has approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share payable on November 26, 2025, to stockholders of record as of November 17. Our recurring dividend highlights our focus on and continued commitment to prudently returning capital to shareholders.

In terms of CapEx, we spent approximately $164 million in the quarter, primarily related to the Fairway Villa renovations and food and beverage enhancements in Las Vegas, concession-related CapEx in Macau and normal course maintenance across the business. In addition to that figure, we contributed $93.9 million of equity to the Wynn Al Marjan Island project during the quarter, bringing our total equity contribution to date to $835 million. We also continued to draw on the Marjan construction loan with a drawn amount to date of $583.7 million. We estimate our remaining share of the required equity, including the new Janu project, is approximately $525 million to $625 million.

With that, we will now open up the call to Q&A.