XPeng Inc. (XPEV) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 17, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Alex Xie - Head of Investor Relations
He Xiaopeng - Co-founder, Chairman & CEO
Jiaming Wu - Vice President of Finance & Accounting
Charles Zhang - Vice President of Corporate Finance and BW Projects
Gui Hongdi - Honorary Vice Chairman of the Board & Co-President

Conference Call Participants

Tim Hsiao - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Y.C. Lai - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Ming-Hsun Lee - BofA Securities, Research Division
Tina Hou - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Pingyue Wu - Citic Securities Co., Ltd., Research Division
Xiaoyi Lei - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by for the Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call for XPeng Inc. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to your host, Mr. Alex Xie, Head of Investor Relations and Capital Markets of the company. Please go ahead, Alex.

Alex Xie
Head of Investor Relations

Thank you. Hello, everyone, and welcome to XPeng's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Our financial and operating results were issued by Newswire services earlier today and available online. You can also view the earnings press release by visiting the IR section of our website at ir.xiaopeng.com.

Participants on today's call from management team will include Co-Founder, Chairman and CEO, Mr. He Xiaopeng; Vice Chairman and President, Dr. Brian Gu; Vice President of Corporate Finance and VW Projects, Mr. Charles Zhang; Vice President of Finance and Accounting, Mr. James Wu; and myself.

Management will begin with prepared remarks, and the call will conclude with a Q&A session. A webcast replay of this conference call will be available on the IR section of our website.

Before we continue, please note that today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements made under the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. As such, the company's results may be materially different from the views expressed today. Further information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties is included in the relevant public filings of the company as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

The company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required under applicable law. Please also note that XPeng's earnings press release and this conference call include the disclosure of unaudited GAAP financial measures as well as unaudited non-GAAP financial measures. XPeng's earnings press release contains a reconciliation of the unaudited non-GAAP measures to the unaudited GAAP measures.

I will now turn the call over to our Co-Founder, Chairman and CEO, Mr. He Xiaopeng. Please go ahead.

He Xiaopeng
Co-founder, Chairman & CEO

[Interpreted] Hello, everyone. In Q3 2025, XPeng reported record sales -- record results in key operating metrics with new highs in deliveries, revenue, gross margin and cash reserves. Vehicle deliveries for the quarter totaled 116,007 units, a 149% increase year-over-year. The all-new XPeng P7 launched recently quickly became one of the top 3 BEV sedans priced between RMB 200,000 to RMB 300,000 boosting monthly deliveries to over 40,000 units starting in September.

Additionally, the company's gross margin exceeded 20% for the first time in Q3, and we reduced our net loss further. Our goal is to achieve breakeven for the company in the fourth quarter. These continuous operational improvements strengthen our focus on physical AI R&D, supporting the targeted mass production of our VLA 2.0 model, Robotaxi and humanoid robot in 2026.

As AI models advance and become increasingly integrated with real-world data, machines are slowly gaining the ability to interact, communicate, transform and create within our physical environment. This development is reshaping the future of mobility and daily life.

Over the past 11 years, XPeng has dedicated itself to building full stack technologies in-house evolving from software-defined vehicles to the emerging realm of physical AI. We understand that vehicles and humanoid robot, the 2 primarily applications of physical AI, share a homogeneous physical world model, SoCs and infrastructure, allowing for rapid iteration and evolution.

Excitingly, new capabilities are continuously emerging from our physical AI technology stack. Over the next decade, my goal is to make XPeng a leading global company in embodied intelligence. Focused on physical AI applications, we're developing an extensive portfolio of technologies, products and supporting business ecosystem.

Besides providing AI-powered vehicles to consumers worldwide, we aim to deploy pre-installed mass-produced Robotaxi on a large scale and achieve the mass production of humanoid robots. We believe that an open and dynamic ecosystem is crucial to unlocking the full potential of physical AI for humanity.

To achieve this, we plan to open source our physical world model, launch Robotaxi services in partnership with mobility platforms and relieve our humanoid robot SDK. This approach will expand the physical AI application ecosystem through collaborations with business and technology partners and accelerate the value creation process.

I'm also glad to report that as we introduce the one vehicle, dual energy product cycle for AI vehicles, we'll expand our scale and increase our NEV market share through a wider product range. On November 6, we launched presales for the XPeng X9 Super Extended-Range EV, an industry frontrunner in extended-range vehicles equipped with a 5C rate high-capacity LFP battery and a total range of up to 1,602 kilometers.

It is the world's first large 7 seater to offer the longest range, highest AI computing power, smallest turning radius and most efficient space utilization in its category. We see super extended-range EVs as crucial for accelerating the shift from ICE vehicles to NEVs. Since presales began for the X9 Super EREV, we've experienced unprecedented interest, especially in northern regions and inland cities of China, attracting many customers who previously hesitated to switch to BEV models.

To date, preorders for this model are nearly 3x higher than the presale of the previous X9. On a like-for-like basis, the X9 Super EREV will officially launch on November 20 with deliveries starting immediately afterwards. I anticipate reaching a new delivery record in December.

We plan to introduce 3 super extended-range products in Q1 2026 focusing on alleviating key challenges for our EREV users by offering long, pure electric range and quicker 5C supercharging, thereby capturing more of the EREV market. We have put in more R&D expenses in 2025. As a result in 2026, we'll also launch 4 new one vehicle, dual energy models, including our first product launch in some key market segments.

These innovative products will help us establish a presence in these markets and build leading products like the MONA M03. I'm confident that the 7 one vehicle, dual energy models with super extended-range technology debuting next year will greatly increase our total addressable market or TAM and provide significant sales growth opportunities.

On the global business front, we maintained strong sales growth and established a solid foundation for long-term expansion through our localized approach. In September 2025, our monthly overseas deliveries exceeded 5,000 units for the first time, a 79% increase year-over-year. During the third quarter, we grew our global presence with 56 new overseas stores, expanding our sales and service network to 52 countries and regions worldwide.

Additionally, our first European localized production facility at Magna plant in Graz, Austria, officially commenced operations with the initial batch of XPeng G6 and G9 rolling off the line. Simultaneously, XPeng's R&D center in Munich, Germany, officially began functioning, helping us better understand overseas customer needs and accelerate technological advancement and product launches. In 2026, we plan to introduce 3 new overseas models, including popular mid- to small SUVs that meet the diverse preferences of global consumers.

Our strong focus on investing in AI large models, computing infrastructure and data set is driving the continuous emergence of advanced capabilities from our physical world model. Our upcoming VLA 2.0 model, which has 10x more parameters than its predecessors will substantially enhance safety and user experience in intelligent driving.

From my own recent driving experience during very complicated and complex road conditions, we experienced very impressive and unparalleled driving experience from the intelligent VLA model. So starting from late December, we will initiate a co-creation program with our early adopters.

In the early quarter of 2026, we aim to deploy the VLA 2.0 model across the entire Ultra lineup. I see the mass production of VLA 2.0 as a major breakthrough in physical AI models, offering a significant generational leap in user experience and attracting more people to choose XPeng for its leading intelligent driving technology.

Going forward, XPeng will open source it's VLA 2.0 model to global commercial partners, aiming to provide industry-leading advanced driver assistance experience to a wider audience. Volkswagen will be the initial launch customer for the VLA 2.0 model. Additionally, XPeng's Turing AI SoC has earned a formal sourcing designation from Volkswagen with codeveloped vehicles expected to start mass production early next year.

Revenue from licensing our technology to external partnerships will be reinvested into our R&D, mainly to support iteration and upgrades of the Turing SoC and VLA models. This fosters a positive cycle of innovation and commercialization. We invite more automakers and Tier 1 manufacturers to collaborate with us on the Turing SoC and VLA 2.0, working together to promote the adoption of advanced intelligent technologies in both Chinese and global markets.

Traditionally, end-to-end models were able to maybe reach advanced Level 2 at its best; however, the rise of physical world model is speeding up the arrival of true autonomous driving. I believe that only pre-installed mass-produced Robotaxis with a strong ability to generalize can achieve widespread adoption and create a sustainable business model.

In 2026, XPeng plans to launch 3 Robotaxi models. Our technology stack for Robotaxi does not depend on high-definition maps or LiDAR. This approach enables us to address current industry's challenges, including high cost, operational limitations and poor generalization, allowing for an efficient and scalable deployment worldwide.

We intend to begin pilot operations of XPeng Robotaxi in China in 2026, continuously improving both software and hardware of Robotaxi while building an operational ecosystem. I believe that a collaborative ecosystem where all industry stakeholders' benefit is key to scaling rapidly. Therefore, we plan to open our SDK to our partners, and Amap will be the first ecosystem partner for XPeng Robotaxi. We also invite more companies in the mobility sector to explore Robotaxi collaboration opportunities with us.

Our humanoid robots adopt a technology road map driven by physical world model. With full support from our vehicle and powertrain R&D teams, we unveiled our next-generation IRON robot at the latest XPeng Tech Day. The IRON's human-like posture and agile gait surprised and deeply moved many XPeng fans and also highlighted the great commercial potential of humanoid robots.

Currently, IRON demonstrates only a very small fraction of its capabilities. In Q2 2026, we plan to achieve full capability integration through cross-domain innovation aiming for performance and user experience for far surpass current market offerings. Our target is to begin mass production of advanced humanoid robots by the end of 2026.

Once produced, IRON will be first deployed in commercial scenarios, providing services like tour guiding, retail assistance and patrols. By the end of next year, I hope IRON will be working alongside us at XPeng stores, campuses and factories as our new team members. Additionally, XPeng Robotics will open its SDK to global developers, inviting partners from various industries to collaborate on secondary development.

This will enable IRON to be trained and to evolve across diverse and long-tail real-world well scenarios, unlocking broader application possibilities. From a long-term perspective, I believe the market potential for humanoid robots will exceed that of automobiles. Once a new generation of robots reaches the inflection point just as China's EV industry did with electrification, we expect explosive growth ahead. I envision that by 2030, XPeng robots could sell over 1 million units annually.

With the launch of our one vehicle, dual energy product cycle, I expect total deliveries in the fourth quarter to reach between 125,000 and 132,000 units reflecting a year-over-year growth of 36.6% to 44.3%. We project fourth quarter revenue to be roughly between RMB 21.5 billion to RMB 23 billion, up 33.5% to 42.8% from the previous year.

XPeng's AI-driven vehicle business is in the early stages of rapid expansion in terms of scale and market shares, while Robotaxi and humanoid robot programs are swiftly moving forward and towards mass production. I'm confident that XPeng will establish itself as a leader in physical AI, both in China and globally, delivering greater value for our customers and shareholders worldwide.

Thank you, everyone. With that, I'll now turn the call over to our VP of Finance, Mr. James, who will discuss our financial performance for the third quarter of 2025.

Jiaming Wu
Vice President of Finance & Accounting

Thank you, Xiaopeng. Now let me provide a brief overview of our financial results for the third quarter of 2025. I'll reference RMB only in my discussion today, unless otherwise stated.

Our total revenues were RMB 20.38 billion for the third quarter of 2025, an increase of 101.8% year-over-year and an increase of 11.5% quarter-over-quarter. Revenues from vehicle sales were RMB 18.05 billion for the third quarter of 2025, an increase of 105.3% year-over-year and an increase of 6.9% quarter-over-quarter. The year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter increases were mainly attributable to higher deliveries from newly launched vehicle models.

Revenues from services and others were RMB 2.33 billion for the third quarter of 2025, representing an increase of 78.1% year-over-year and an increase of 67.3% quarter-over-quarter. The year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter increases were primarily attributable to the increased revenues from after sales services and technical R&D services rendered to the Volkswagen Group due to the successful achievement of certain key milestones in the current quarter.

Gross margin was 20.1% for the third quarter of 2025, compared with 15.3% for the same period of 2024 and 17.3% for the second quarter of 2025. Vehicle margin was 13.1% for the third quarter of 2025, compared with 8.6% for the same period of 2024 and 14.3% for the second quarter of 2025. The year-over-year increase was primarily attributable to the ongoing cost reduction, while the quarter-over-quarter decrease was due to targeted promotion to clear outgoing inventory during product transition.

R&D expenses were RMB 2.43 billion for the third quarter of 2025, representing an increase of 48.7% year-over-year and an increase of 10.1% quarter-over-quarter. The year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter increases were mainly due to higher expenses related to the development of new vehicle models and technologies, as the company expanded its product portfolio to support future growth.

SG&A expenses were RMB 2.49 billion for the third quarter of 2025, representing an increase of 52.6% year-over-year and an increase of 15% quarter-over-quarter. The year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter increases were primarily due to higher commission to the franchised stores, driven by higher sales volume as well as higher marketing and advertising expenses.

As a result of the foregoing loss from operations was RMB 0.75 billion for the third quarter of 2025, compared with RMB 1.85 billion year-over-year and RMB 0.93 billion quarter-over-quarter. Net loss was RMB 0.38 billion for the third quarter of 2025 compared with RMB 1.81 billion year-over-year and RMB 0.48 billion quarter-over-quarter. As of September 30, 2025, our company had cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, short-term investments and time deposits in total of RMB 48.33 billion.

To be mindful of the length of the earnings call, I will encourage listeners to refer to our earnings press release for more details on our third quarter 2025 financial results.

This concludes our prepared remarks. We'll now open the call to questions. Operator, please go ahead.