Yatsen Holding Limited (YSG) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 17, 2025 7:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Irene Lyu - Head of Strategic Investments & Capital Markets
Jinfeng Huang - Founder, CEO & Chairman of the Board of Directors
Donghao Yang - CFO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Manqi Huang - China International Capital Corporation Limited, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, good day, and welcome to the Yatsen Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Irene Lyu, Vice President, Head of Strategic Investment and Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Irene Lyu
Head of Strategic Investments & Capital Markets

Thank you, operator. Please note that discussion today will contain forward-looking statements relating to the company's future performance and are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability as established by the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, assumptions and other factors. Some of these risks are beyond the company's control and could cause actual results to differ materially from those mentioned in today's press release and this discussion.

A general discussion of the risk factors that could affect Yatsen's business and financial results is included in certain filings of the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company does not undertake any obligation to update this forward-looking information, except required by law.

During today's call, management will also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures for comparison purposes only. Please see the earnings release issued earlier today for a definition of non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial results.

Joining us today on the call from Yatsen's senior management are Mr. Jinfeng Huang; our Founder, Chairman and CEO; and Mr. Donghao Yang, our CFO and Director. Management will begin with prepared remarks, and the call will conclude with a Q&A session. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. In addition, a webcast replay of this conference call will be available on Yatsen's Investor Relations website at ir.yatsenglobal.com.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Jinfeng Huang. Please Go ahead, sir.

Jinfeng Huang
Founder, CEO & Chairman of the Board of Directors

Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining our third quarter 2025 earnings call. The beauty market in China continues to show signs of recovery in the third quarter, particularly in the skincare category, which remains robust and the supported overall industry growth.

Amidst this improving backdrop, we remain focused on executing our long-term strategy to build a competitive and resilient brand portfolio anchored in R&D and innovation. Through disciplined execution, we delivered our fourth consecutive quarter of revenue growth with total net revenues increasing by 47.5% year-over-year and exiting the high end of our guidance.

Our momentum continues to be driven by strong growth from skincare and sustained performance of our hero product engine rather than short-term promotions. Our skincare brands grew by 83.2% year-over-year and reached 49.2% of total revenue, making another step forward in our category upgrade strategy and reinforcing our transformation toward a more sustainable margin-accretive portfolio.

Meanwhile, our net loss narrowed meaningfully as a result of the improved gross margin, optimize operating efficiency and more disciplined resources allocation. Net loss margin improved significantly from 17.9% in the prior year period to 7% this quarter, demonstrating the continued progress in our profitability trajectory. These results reflect the strength of our brands as well as our commitment to disciplined execution.

Looking ahead, our priority is to continue progressing toward profitability in a disciplined and a sustainable way. We expect further improvement to be driven by a higher income mix, ongoing gross margin optimization and greater marketing efficiency.

While we will continue to invest in innovation and hero products, we remain disciplined in balancing growth with profitability.

Now let me share some brand and further highlights during this quarter. Galénic delivered strong momentum and remained one of the fastest growing premium skincare brand. The brand [ hero ] serum [ series ] continued to perform well, is the #1 VC serum and #2 [ AVA ] serum ranking among the top selling serum across major e-commerce platforms. The newly introduced #3 VB serum launched in the mid-September to further build up the brands, ABC cellular level skincare framework quickly became one of the brand's best-selling items on Douyin. We are also seeing encouraging signs of regimen adoption with more consumers purchasing multiple products within the series, supporting stronger customer lifetime value.

DR. WU recorded healthy growth during the quarter, supported by strong performance from its [ core ] categories. In September, DR. WU unveiled its first anti-aging product in the U.K. leveraging decades of the clinical expertise in skin renewal. The newly launched PDRN serum gained strong traction across e-commerce platforms given by its innovative formulary featuring the high concentration of active ingredients and patterned penetration technology, underscoring the brand's ability to build up through clinically validated innovation.

In China, DR. WU continues to lead the Mandelic Acid category across online platforms. In addition, DR. WU presented its research at the 9th annual academic conferences of the Dermatology Committee of the Chinese Nongovernment Medical Institution Association, further demonstrating the brand's commitment to clinically grounded innovation and strengthening its leadership in renewable focused skin care.

Our flagship brand Perfect Diary also continued to make progress. Following the success for launch of the Translucent Blurring Setting Powder and BioFace Essence Foundation, the brand focused on streamlining its core product performance, improving hero product quality and enhancing overall product experience under the makeup signification concept. Several of these hero products delivered the performance above expectations, driving Perfect Diary space makeup category to exceed 40% of the total sales and supporting a more sustainable and disciplined recovery.

In the third quarter, Perfect Diary also excelled in new channel performance and achieved the #1 ranking among makeup brands on WeChat video channel, reflecting the brands strengthened competitiveness and growing consumer revenue.

R&D and innovation have consistently serve as the cornerstone of our product development and brand building. We are committed to advancing scientific research to strengthen our long-term competitiveness.

During the quarter, we participated in the IFCC Congress for the fourth consecutive year, this time in [indiscernible]. 11 of our papers were shortlisted by the IFCC, covering topics from more cellular mechanism and a clinical translation to AI algorithms and emotion skin care. So this work highlights our full chain capabilities from fundamental science to technology translation and clinical validation, and directly supports future hero highlights across our brands.

As we finished the third quarter, we are pleased to see continued progress in both growth and operational improvements. We remain confident that our strategic focus on R&D, together with disciplined execution and a sharper resource allocation will enable us to deliver sustainable long-term growth. At the same time, we will remain highly disciplined in capital allocation, prioritizing investments that strengthen our core brands and innovation capability while creating long-term value for shareholders.

Thank you. I will now turn the call to Donghao.

Donghao Yang
CFO & Director

Thank you, David, and hello, everyone. Before I get started, I would like to clarify that all financial numbers presented today are in renminbi amounts and all percentage changes refer to year-over-year changes unless otherwise noted.

Total net revenues for the third quarter of 2025 increased by 47.5% to RMB 998.4 million from RMB 677 million for the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to an 83.2% year-over-year increase in net revenues from skin care brands, combined with a 25.2% year-over-year increase in the revenue from color cosmetics brands.

Gross profit for the third quarter of 2025 increased by 51.9% to RMB 780.5 million from RMB 513.8 million for the prior year period. Gross margin for the third quarter of 2025 increased to 78.2% from 75.9% for the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in sales of higher gross margin products.

Total operating expenses for the third quarter of 2025 increased by 31.9% to RMB 864.1 million from RMB 665.2 million for the prior year period. As a percentage of total net revenues, total operating expenses for the third quarter of 2025 were 86.5% as compared with 96.8% for the prior year period.

Fulfillment expenses for the third quarter of 2025 were RMB 61.8 million as compared with RMB 50.4 million for the prior year period. As a percentage of total net revenues, fulfillment expenses for the third quarter of 2025 decreased to 6.2% from 7.4% for the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by fulfillment cost optimization, coupled with the leveraging effect of higher total net revenues in the third quarter of 2025.

Selling and marketing expenses for the third quarter of 2025 were RMB 682.3 million as compared with RMB 494.4 million for the prior year period. As a percentage of total net revenues, selling and marketing expenses for the third quarter of 2025 decreased to 68.3% from 73% for the prior year period.

The third quarter included a portion of our planned upfront investments with the Double 11 shopping season. These investments typically elevate selling and marketing ratios in the short term, but supports revenue acceleration and stronger brand equity in the fourth quarter and beyond. Excluding these seasonal effects, we continue to see improving marketing efficiency driven by a higher skin care mix and more disciplined spending across channels.

General and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2025 were RMB 80.2 million as compared with RMB 85 million for the prior year period. As a percentage of total net revenues, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2025 decreased to 8% from 12.6% for the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by lower share-based compensation expenses, coupled with the leveraging effect of higher total net revenues in the third quarter of 2025.

Research and development expenses for the third quarter of 2025 were RMB 39.8 million as compared with RMB 25.3 million for the prior year period. As a percentage of total net revenues, research and development expenses for the third quarter of 2025 increased to 4% from 3.7% for the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by higher payroll expenses resulting from a rise in research and development headcount.

Loss from operations for the third quarter of 2025 was RMB 83.6 million as compared with RMB 141.3 million for the prior year period. Operating loss margin was 8.4% as compared with 20.9% for the prior year period. Non-GAAP loss from operations for the third quarter of 2025 was RMB 60.6 million as compared with RMB 98.5 million for the prior year period. Non-GAAP operating loss margin was 6.1% as compared with 14.5% for the prior year period.

Net loss for the third quarter of 2025 was RMB 70.4 million as compared with RMB 121.1 million for the prior year period. Net loss margin was 7% as compared with 17.9% from the prior year period. Net loss attributable to Yatsen's ordinary shareholders for diluted ADS for the third quarter of was RMB 0.7 as compared with RMB 1.22 for the prior year period.

Non-GAAP net loss for the third quarter of 2025 was RMB 51.5 million as compared with RMB 76.6 million for the prior year period. Non-GAAP net loss margin was 5.2% as compared with 11.3% for the prior year period. Non-GAAP net loss attributable to Yatsen's ordinary shareholders per diluted ADS for the third quarter of 2025 was RMB 0.5 as compared with RMB 0.77 for the prior year period.

As of September 30, 2025, the company had cash, restricted cash and short-term investments of RMB 1.16 billion as compared with RMB 1.36 billion as of December 31, 2024.

Net cash used in operating activities for the third quarter of 2025 was RMB 126.8 million as compared with RMB 175.9 million for the prior year period.

The operating cash flow was primarily due to working capital movements, including inventory, positioning and receivables timing ahead of Double 11. These are seasonal and planned effects. We expect operating cash flow to improve as these improved investment convert into revenue in the fourth quarter and as we continue to optimize inventory efficiency and marketing ROI.

Looking at our business outlook for the fourth quarter of 2025, we expect our total net revenues to be between RMB 1.32 billion and RMB 1.49 billion, representing a year-over-year increase of approximately 15% to 30%. These forecasts reflect our current and preliminary views on the market and operational conditions, which are subject to change.

With that, I would now like to open the call to Q&A. Operator?