Industria de Diseño Textil, S.A. (OTCPK:IDEXY) Q2 2025 Earnings Call September 10, 2025 3:00 AM EDT


Company Participants

James O'Shaughnessy - Senior Investor Relations Manager
Oscar Maceiras - CEO & Executive Director
Andrés Sánchez Iglesias - Chief Financial Officer
Gorka Yturriaga - Director of Investor Relations


Conference Call Participants

Geoff Lowery - Redburn (Europe) Limited, Research Division
Anne Critchlow - Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG, Research Division
Monique Pollard - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Sreedhar Mahamkali - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Alexander Richard Okines - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division
James Grzinic - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Richard Chamberlain - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division


Presentation


James O'Shaughnessy
Senior Investor Relations Manager

Buenos días and good morning to everyone today. A warm welcome to all those taking part in our half year 2025 results presentation. My name is James O'Shaughnessy, Investor Relations. The presentation today will be led by Inditex's CEO, Oscar Garcia Maceiras; our CFO, Andrés Sánchez; and Gorka García-Tapia, Director of Investor Relations.

[Operator Instructions] Let's take the disclaimer as read.

Over to you, Oscar.


Oscar Maceiras
CEO & Executive Director

Good morning. Welcome to our results presentation. It's good to be with you all today. In the first half of 2025, we have again achieved a solid performance with satisfactory sales in a complex market environment and keeping strong levels of profitability. The efficient execution accomplished by our teams demonstrates the strength of Inditex's business model.

This business model continues to be driven by our unique fashion proposition and increasingly optimized customer experience, our focus on sustainability and the quality and commitment of our teams. These factors continue to enhance our competitive differentiation.

Our Spring Summer collections have been well received by customers. We had a satisfactory sales growth of 1.6%. Sales in constant currency increased by 5.1%. It's evident from the figures we are providing this morning that the execution of the business model has also been strong, reflected in the good gross margin performance and by disciplined cost control. At the bottom line, net income increased 0.8% to EUR 2.8 billion. This satisfactory performance has continued going into the second half of the year. Store and online sales in constant currency between the 1st of August and the 8th of September grew 9%.

Our diversified presence across 214 markets in conjunction with a relatively low market penetration in most of these markets underpins our belief in the significant global growth opportunities we have ahead of us. This confidence comes from the fact that we have a unique model that permits us to build upon the increasing levels of differentiation we have seen in recent years.

And now let's move to Andrés to go over the numbers.


Andrés Sánchez Iglesias
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Oscar. As you have seen in the report released early this morning, Inditex executed in a very consistent manner in the first semester of 2025. Sales performed well at plus 1.6%. Furthermore, by actively managing our supply chain, we have been able to generate a very good gross margin performance. In line with what we saw in the first quarter results, operating expenses in the first half have been closely monitored. EBITDA in turn increased 1.5% to reach EUR 5.1 billion. And net income grew by 0.8% to EUR 2.8 billion.

On the top line, I'll point out that sales reached 1.6% to reach EUR 18.4 billion. In constant currency, that translates to 5.1%. We saw consistent growth in sales in our integrated model across both channels. At current exchange rates, we expect a minus 4% top line currency impact for the full year 2025. We enjoy a presence in 214 markets as well as a low market share in the vast majority of these markets. It should also be pointed out that the sector as a whole continues to be very fragmented.

It is due to these factors that we see continued growth for Inditex over the medium to long term. In constant currency, all geographical areas had a positive sales evolution. In the first half of 2025, gross profit increased 1.5% to reach EUR 10.7 billion. The gross margin reached 58.3%. This gross margin performance serves as a demonstration of the good execution of the business model over the period despite a challenging market environment.

Based on the data we have at our disposal right now, for the full year 2025, we expect a stable gross margin of plus/minus 50 basis points. As you can see throughout the half year, we have been able to maintain firm control over operating expenses across the business. Operating expenses increased 2.2% in the first 6 months of 2025. It is worth highlighting that the PBT margin came in at 19.6%. Operating working capital remains negative as a result of the business model.

The development of operating working capital is very much aligned with the performance of the business over the period, as you would expect. In conjunction with the satisfactory operating performance we have seen in the first semester Inditex's inventory as of the 31st of July was 3% higher. It is important to note that the closing inventory at the end of the trading period was of high quality.

As you can see from this slide, we continue to generate very strong levels of cash flow. Funds from operations increased 5% to EUR 3.7 billion. Capital expenditure reached EUR 1.3 billion, reflecting the ordinary and extraordinary investments in 2025, focused on ensuring future growth. Cash flow in the period was impacted by the calendar of payments coming from the normalization of supply chain conditions over the last year relating to the Red Sea.

And now over to you, Gorka.


Gorka Yturriaga
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Andrés. As Oscar and Andrés have alluded to already, we are content with the performance of the group in the first half of 2025 and with the overall execution of the model over the period. The global rollout of the optimization program continues to take place. As per usual, we are, of course, referring to new store openings, refurbishments, enlargements and absorptions. It may interest you to know that sales in constant currency have been positive across all concepts over the period.

To give you a taste of what we've been doing in the first 6 months of this year, Inditex opened stores in 35 different markets all across the globe. Each of the concepts with no exception, are participating in the global growth plan. We continue to expand our concepts into new markets. Stradivarius entered Austria in July with a store in Vienna. Tomorrow, 11th of September, Oysho opens its first store in the Netherlands in Amsterdam, Kalverstraat.

Finally, Manchester Trafford Centre is a good example of our active store optimization program. Taking advantage of a large real estate opportunity, Zara and Pull&Bear have all relocated to new stores with larger footprints, while Bershka has opened its first store in the mall. We'll go into more detail as to some of these activities shortly.

And now back to you, Oscar.


Oscar Maceiras
CEO & Executive Director

Thank you, Gorka. Our objective has always been to continually strengthen and reinforce the key pillars of our highly integrated business model. As has always been the case, our first priority is to enhance the appeal of our commercial proposition. After all, it is the creativity, innovation, design and quality of our collections that will determine our success going forward.

Thanks to our more than 700 designers and our prototype teams, every meticulous detail in the design process is taken care of, enabling us to offer the highest quality fashion to customers in all corners of the globe. The end result of our unique approach is the integration of the physical with the online experience in a seamless manner that permits us across multiple formats to rapidly react to changing fashion trends and offer the latest collections.

With our integrated store and online model, our teams have been able to take advantage of the growth opportunities we see across all channels, concepts and markets. Underlining this consistent level of growth are the new openings, enlargements and the refurbishments of stores in the very best locations, expanding into new cities and into new territories and launching new services that enhance the customers' shopping experience.

As Gorka has already mentioned, in August, Zara relocated to a new store in Manchester Trafford, which has dedicated spaces for our collections, including Zara Athleticz, which offers customers a sportwear fashion for them. Another example is the recent reopening of our store in Madrid Serrano. This iconic location includes our third The Apartment, a new way of interacting with our customers. Also available in Compostela Coruña and [indiscernible] Paris that offers the premium part of our Zara and Zara Home collections in a highly curated way.

The rollout of the soft-tag program at Zara was completed last year. This program adds to the existing in-store technology ecosystem with Click & Collect silos, assisted checkouts and drop-off points and sorters. We are using this as a springboard for the further integration of the online platforms with our increasingly digitalized stores for the years to come. The technology is being rolled out currently in Bershka and Pull&Bear.

Within the bringyourbag initiative and thanks to the reuse of shopping bags by our customers, we have reduced their consumption in our stores by 49%. We are investing the equivalent full amount raised from charging for recycled paper bags and envelopes in environmental projects in over 30 countries, in partnership with non-profit organizations such as Conservation International and WWF. Recently, we have formalized a new program, in collaboration with the international environmental organization, Ocean Conservancy, aimed at the protection of marine ecosystems and biodiversity.

This agreement, endowed by Inditex, includes the removal of more than 450 tonnes of plastics from beaches and areas of high environmental value, the collection of nets and fishing gear abandoned in the oceans and the promotion of zero waste projects for the collection and recovery of waste.

With a view to Inditex's long-term growth potential, in the current year, we are planning investments that will scale our capabilities, generate efficiencies and increase our competitive differentiation. The growth of annual gross space in the period 2025 to 2026 is expected to be around 5%. Over this same time period, Inditex expects net space to be positive along with strong online sales. For 2025, we estimate ordinary capital expenditure of approximately EUR 1.8 billion.

We continue to focus the ordinary capital expenditure on our global store base, the online platform and the rollout of technology programs aimed at enhancing the level of integration. As we have already shared in recent results presentations, given our view on Inditex's strong long-term growth opportunities, we are in the process of executing the logistics expansion plan set for 2024 and 2025. This 2-year extraordinary investment program, focusing on the expansion of the business allocates EUR 900 million per year to increase logistic capacities in each of the 2024 and 2025 financial years. The logistics expansion plan is on track.

The Zaragoza II I distribution center is now up and running. Our centers have the highest standards of sustainability and cutting-edge technology. We focus on productivity and team well-being. In July, Inditex invested in Theker Robotics, a start-up developing AI-driven logistics automation. A brief reminder on the dividend. The final dividend payment for 2024 of EUR 0.84 per share will be made on the 3rd of November 2025.

I would like to finish with a comment on our current performance. Autumn/Winter collections continue to be very well received by our customers. Store and online sales in constant currency increased 9% between the 1st of August and the 8th of September 2025 versus the same time period of 2024. Thank you all for attending this results presentation. That concludes our presentation for today.

We will be happy to answer any questions you may have.