ZIM Integrated Shipping Services Ltd. (ZIM) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 20, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Elana Holzman - Head of Investor Relations
Eliyahu Glickman - President & CEO
Xavier Destriau - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Omar Nokta - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Marco Limite - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Alexia Dogani - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Tianyu Fu - Citigroup Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. My name is Kate, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the ZIM Integrated Shipping Services Third Quarter 2025 Financial Results Conference Call.

[Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to Elana Holzman. You may begin.

Elana Holzman
Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator, and welcome to ZIM's Third Quarter 2025 Financial Results Conference Call. Joining me on the call today are Eli Glickman, ZIM's President and CEO; and Xavier Destriau, ZIM's CFO. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that during the course of this call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding expectations, predictions, projections or future events or results. We believe that our expectations and assumptions are reasonable.

We wish to caution you that such statements reflect only the company's current expectations and that actual events or results may differ, including materially. You are kindly referred to consider the risk factors and cautionary language described in the documents the company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our 2024 annual report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC on March 12, 2025.

We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to ZIM's CEO, Eli Glickman. Eli?

Eliyahu Glickman
President & CEO

Thank you, Elana, and welcome, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Q3 2025 unfolded against a backdrop of continued uncertainty driven by geopolitical and trade tensions. While the shipping industry has always been characterized by volatility, we are now experiencing events and changes with greater frequency and intensity than in the past, amplifying the challenges and requiring us to be even more agile than ever. Despite these headwinds, our team has navigated a volatile rate environment with resilience, maintaining service reliability, optimizing our cost base and delivering solid Q3 results.

Slide #4. Consistent with our expectation, we generated revenue of $1.8 billion and net income of $123 million. Q3 adjusted EBITDA was $593 million and adjusted EBIT was $260 million, with adjusted EBITDA margin of 33% and adjusted EBIT margin of 15%. We maintained total liquidity of $3 billion at September 30.

Slide #5. ZIM Board of Directors continue to prioritize returning capital to shareholders and has amended ZIM dividend policy in 2021 and 2022, aiming to reward long-term shareholders. Additionally, when financial results have exceeded expectations, the Board has promoted a special dividend distribution to further reward shareholders.

Accordingly, under this policy, the Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $0.31 per share for a total of approximately $37 million, representing 30% of third quarter net income.

Throughout '24 and '25, ZIM has distributed a total dividend of $9.09 per share, including the dividend declared today for a total of approximately $1.1 billion. Since the IPO, we distributed a total of approximately $5.7 billion as dividends or $47.54 per share, including the dividend declared today.

Turning to our guidance. The fourth quarter is trending weaker than originally projected when we provided guidance in August. However, despite the considerable uncertainty, our 9 months results have enabled us to refine our full year guidance range and increase midpoints. As such, based primarily on our performance year-to-date, we now expect to generate adjusted EBITDA between $2 billion to $2.2 billion and adjusted EBIT between $700 million and $900 million.

Xavier, our CFO, will provide additional context and our underlying assumption for our 2025 guidance later on the call.

Slide #6. In a highly dynamic environment, we continue to take proactive steps in line with our strategic objectives during the third quarter and into the fourth quarter. Capitalizing on the versatility of our fleet, we have been able to adjust capacity quickly as market conditions have evolved.

On the Transpacific, we have continuously adapted our network to account for changes in cargo flow patterns resulting from the ongoing U.S.-China trade standoff. The recent U.S.-China trade agreement marks a positive development, potentially reducing market uncertainty and enabling our customers to plan with greater confidence. The tariff reduction on Chinese goods announced as part of this trade agreement could support demand going forward, though the extent of its impact remains uncertain.

Nonetheless, the long-term trend toward economic decoupling between China and the U.S. is likely to persist as both continue efforts to diversify their export and import markets. ZIM's long-term strategy, which we have previously discussed, is closely aligned with this trend, expanding and diversifying our network so we can capture new opportunities as global trade patterns evolve. Two critical focus areas for us are Southeast Asia and Latin America.

As manufacturers diversify production away from China, countries like Vietnam, Korea and Thailand have increased their share of U.S. imports. Our expanded presence in Southeast Asia continued to be an important strategic advantage for ZIM. By establishing a strong foothold in this market, we've been able to capture new trade growth and partially offset the reduction in transpacific cargo from China to the U.S. We have also strategically focused on expanding our presence in Latin America over the last 2 years.

In Q3, we continue to grow our volumes and still see meaningful opportunities in this region, supported by the steady expansion of trade between Latin America and key markets, including the United States and China. Overall, regional diversification enhances our network flexibility, broadens our customer base and reduces our dependence on any single trade lane.

Our ability to capitalize on this opportunity is a direct result of our cost competitive fleet and agile deployment strategy. Following the delivery of 46 new builds in 2023 and 2024, which significantly improved the efficiency of our operated capacity, we have transformed fleet of larger modern vessels well suited to the trade in which we operate. We remain diligent in keeping our fleet modern and competitive.

Earlier this year, we secured a significant charter agreement for Ten 11,500 TEU LNG dual-fuel vessels scheduled to delivery in 2027 and 2028. This continued investment in our fleet is central to our growth strategy, enhancing both the sustainability and competitiveness of our capacity. The versatile size and design of this vessel will further enhance our operational flexibility and support long-term profitable growth. In addition to strengthen our core fleet, we continue to prioritize flexibility and optionality in our fleet strategy. As part of this approach, we actively manage our operated fleet to align with evolving market conditions.

During the third quarter, we continue to redeliver vessels to owners, which Xavier will discuss in more detail. Our approach to renewing charter this year signal a cautious outlook, particularly as the market fundamentals still point to supply growth outpacing demand moving forward. As such, we anticipate continued pressure on freight rates during the remainder of the fourth quarter and into 2026.

Overall, we remain confident in our strategy and competitive position. Today, approximately 60% of our capacity is new build and 40% of our fleet is LNG powered, reflecting our early investment in cost and fuel-efficient vessels and commitment to sustainability. With the addition of the Ten 11,500 new LNG-powered vessels by 2028, we expect to operate not only the youngest fleet in our segment, but also the greenest with the largest proportion of LNG-powered capacity, further strengthening our leadership in sustainability and operational efficiency.

Looking ahead, we intend to build on our progress to date, maintaining and further enhancing our competitive advantages while capitalizing on attractive opportunity that will ensure our fleet remains modern and cost effective. We believe our nimble commercial approach, coupled with prudent investment in fleet, equipment and technology continues to drive resilience across ZIM business and position us to deliver long-term value for our shareholders.

Before turning the call to Xavier, I would like to address our view on Suez Canal. Ensuring the safety of our crew, customer cargo and vessels remain our highest priority. While the current cease fire in Gaza is encouraging progress, return to Suez Canal will require further assurance regarding the durability of this cease fire, and we are monitoring the situation closely. Having said that, we believe that the return to the Suez Canal in the near future now appears increasing likely.

Therefore, we are preparing an operational plan to support this transition once the security situation has stabilized. Resuming passage through the Suez Canal represents both opportunities and risks. While it will allow improved fleet efficiency and generate operational cost savings, it will also increase effective supply currently tied by -- tied up by longer routes and around the Cape of Good Hope, adding pressure on freight rates.

With that, I will turn the call over to Xavier, our CFO, for a more detailed discussion of our financial results, 2025 guidance as well as additional comments on the market environment. Xavier, please.

Xavier Destriau
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Eli. And again, on my behalf, welcome to everyone. On Slide 7, we present our key financial and operational highlights. We delivered solid profitability in Q3 despite a volatile operating environment. Third quarter revenues were $1.8 billion, down 36% compared to last year, reflecting both lower freight rates and lower volume. Total revenues in the first 9 months of 2025 of $5.4 billion were down $840 million or 13% year-over-year.

Average freight rate per TEU in the third quarter was $1,602 compared to $2,480 per TEU in the third quarter of last year. Q3 carried volume of 926,000 TEUs was 4.5% lower year-over-year, mostly due to lower volume in Cross-Suez and Atlantic, but 3.5% higher sequentially. Revenues from non-containerized cargo, which reflects mostly our car carrier services, totaled $78 million for the quarter, and that is compared to $145 million in the third quarter of 2024 attributable to both, again, here, lower volume as we operated 2 fewer vessels in the current quarter as well as lower rates.

Our free cash flow in the third quarter totaled $574 million compared to $1.5 billion in the third quarter of 2024. Turning to the balance sheet. Total debt decreased by $369 million since prior year-end. As previously noted, total debt is expected to continue to trend down as repayment of lease liabilities exceeds lease additions and extensions until we start receiving newbuild chartered capacity in the second half of 2026.

Next, the following slide provides an overview of our fleet. Eli covered key aspects of our fleet strategy, but I would like to add a few more data points that we believe are important to consider. ZIM currently operates 115 container ships with a total capacity of 709,000 TEUs. This reflects a decrease of approximately 80,000 TEUs, so lower than our peak after having received all 46 newbuild vessels in early 2025.

Approximately 70% of this capacity we consider as our core fleet, it includes the 46 newbuild vessels, which were received throughout 2023 and 2024, with the last vessel delivered in January this year, 2025. These vessels carry charter durations from 5 to 12 years and another 16 vessels are owned by ZIM. To remind you, we opted to secure these new builds and long-term duration contracts rather than continue to rely on the short-term charter market. And this accomplished multiple key objectives.

First, we ensured access to larger vessels better suited to the trades in which we operate, thereby improving our competitive position. These vessels are generally not available in the shorter-term charter market. Second, the longer-term charter periods contribute to an improved predictability in our cost structure. Moreover, for 25 of the 28 LNG vessels, our core strategic capacity, we hold options to extend the charter period as well as purchase options, giving us full control over the destiny of these vessels very much as if we were the vessel owners.

We also have an option to purchase the Ten 11,500 TEU LNG vessels Eli mentioned earlier following the 12-year charter period. The remaining 30% of our fleet for approximately 192,000 TEUs allows us to maintain important flexibility. By the end of 2026, there will be a total of 20 vessels up for charter renewal with 3 vessels or 5,600 TEU still up for renewal in 2025 and 17 vessels or 55,000 TEUs of capacity up for redelivery in 2026. This optionality to keep the capacity we redelivered to owners allows them to adjust its capacity according to changing market conditions or shifts in our commercial strategy.

We have opted to redeliver 22 vessels this year based on our cautious outlook moving forward as spot freight rates have come under pressure during the second half of the year. With respect to our car carrier capacity, we currently operate 14 vessels, down from 16 car carriers last year, and we expect to redeliver another vessel by year-end. As we previously communicated, we expanded our car carrier capacity in the past few years to benefit from favorable market trends, but we maintain optionality with no long-term commitments on our chartered tonnage. We will continue to assess our level of participation as the car carrier market dynamics evolve. Next, moving on to Slide 9. We present ZIM's third quarter and 9 months 2025 financial results compared to last year's third quarter and first 9 months. We delivered solid profitability in Q3. Adjusted EBITDA in this year's third quarter was $593 million and adjusted EBIT was $260 million. Adjusted EBITDA and EBIT margins for the third quarter were 33% and 15%, respectively, and that compares to 55% and 45% in the third quarter of last year.

For the first 9 months of 2025, adjusted EBITDA margin was 34% and adjusted EBIT margin was 16%. This is compared to 44% and 30% in 2024. Net income in the third quarter was $123 million compared to $1.1 billion in the same quarter of last year.

Next, on Slide 10, you see that we carried 926,000 TEUs in the third quarter compared to 970,000 TEUs during the same period last year, a 4.5% decline. Compared to the prior quarter, so Q2, carried volume was up 3.5%. The year-over-year decline was mainly attributable to weaker volume on Crossways and Atlantic. Transpacific volume this quarter stayed robust, down just 1.5% compared to the same period last year, which saw exceptionally strong demand in the U.S. Sequentially, Transpacific volume increased by 17%. In Latin America trade, we also continued to see growth with a 2.4% increase in volumes year-over-year.

Next, we present our cash flow bridge. So for the quarter, our adjusted EBITDA of $593 million converted into $628 million of net cash generated from operating activities. Other cash flow items for the quarter included $451 million of debt service, mostly related to our lease liability repayment and a dividend payment of $7 million.

Turning now to our outlook. We have narrowed ranges and increased 2025 guidance midpoint. Specifically, we are raising the lower end of our adjusted EBITDA range by $200 million and now expect to generate adjusted EBITDA between $2 billion and $2.2 billion. We have also updated adjusted EBIT guidance to reflect a narrower range, raising the low end and lowering the high end of our prior outlook. Today, we expect to achieve adjusted EBIT in the range of $700 million and $900 million.

To reiterate Eli's earlier comment, these increased midpoints reflect primarily our performance year-to-date. And we note the continued high degree of uncertainty related to global trade and related to the geopolitical environment. With respect to our assumptions, our view on freight rates has softened since our August guidance, while our assumptions about operated capacity, carried volume and also bunker rates remain unchanged.

Before we open the call to questions, just a few more comments on the market. The outlook for container shipping remains cautious as growth in supply is expected to outpace the growth in demand in the foreseeable future. The order book has continued to grow and now stands at 31%. While the growth in supply is expected to slow down in 2026 when we compare to 2025, deliveries are projected to surge again in 2027 to more than 3 million TEUs of capacity, exceeding the record set in 2024.

There are, nevertheless, mitigating factors to consider even if their impact may not be immediate. First, vessel scrapping has been minimal over the past 5 years, and this trend cannot last forever. And at some point, vessel deletion will increase. Second, the industry's decarbonization agenda. Carriers will move forward to meet their own emission targets and expectations from customers to offer greener shipping solutions even if the regulatory framework has met a roadblock. And these efforts may also accelerate scrapping of older vessels, which will become increasingly less economically viable, especially in comparison with the significant newbuild deliveries in the post-COVID era.

On the other side of this supply-demand equation, global container volume is forecasted to grow by about 4% this year, largely driven by robust Chinese exports. However, the question is whether this growth is sustainable into 2026. It's also important to note that the increase in Chinese exports has not been uniform as U.S. imports from China were negatively affected by the trade tensions between the 2 countries.

Looking into 2026, it remains to be seen whether the trade agreement announced earlier this month will lead to a recovery in cargo flow on this trade lane. The supply-demand imbalance in 2026 will likely be exacerbated by the industry's return to Suez Canal, which will, after a period of adjustment, significantly increase effective capacity. And as Eli mentioned, the reopening of Suez offers some benefits, allowing for improved fleet efficiency and operational cost savings, but it will also most likely add pressure to freight rates.

And on that note, we will open the call to questions. Thank you.