BellRing Brands, Inc. (NYSE:BRBR) Q1 2025 Earnings Conference Call February 4, 2025 8:30 AM ET

Company Participants

Jennifer Meyer - IR
Darcy Davenport - President & CEO
Paul Rode - CFO

Conference Call Participants

David Palmer - Evercore ISI
Andrew Lazar - Barclays
Ken Goldman - JPMorgan
Thomas Palmer - Citi
Kaumil Gajrawala - Jefferies
Jim Salera - Stephens
John Baumgartner - Mizuho Securities
Brian Holland - D.A. Davidson
Matt Smith - Stifel
Robert Moskow - TD Cowen

Operator

Good day, and welcome to BellRing Brands First Quarter Fiscal Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be given at that time. As a reminder this call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to Jennifer Meyer, Investor Relations for BellRing Bands. Please go ahead.

Jennifer Meyer

Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for BellRing Brands First Quarter Fiscal 2025 Earnings Call. With me today are Darcy Davenport, our President and CEO; and Paul Rode, our CFO. Darcy and Paul will begin with prepared remarks and afterwards, we'll have a brief question-and-answer session. The press release and supplemental slide presentation that support these remarks are posted on our website in both the Investor Relations and the SEC filings sections at bellring.com. In addition, the release and slides are available on the SEC's website.

Before we continue, I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that should be carefully considered by investors as actual results could differ materially from these statements. These forward-looking statements are current as of the date of this call, and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements. As a reminder, this call is being recorded and an audio replay will be available on our website.

And finally, this call will discuss certain non-GAAP measures. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the nearest GAAP measure, see our press release issued yesterday and posted on our website.

With that, I will turn the call over to Darcy.

Darcy Davenport

Thanks, Jennifer, and thank you all for joining us this morning. Last evening, we reported our first quarter results and posted a supplemental presentation to our website. I'm pleased to share that fiscal '25 is off to a good start. The business accelerated as we layered in-demand drivers and kicked off new campaigns on both brands.

Our first quarter results were slightly ahead of our expectations on the top line with more favorability on the bottom line. Both net sales and adjusted EBITDA grew approximately 25%, driven by Premier Protein. Our EBITDA margins benefited from favorable gross margins and the timing of marketing spend. As you saw in yesterday's press release, we raised our outlook for the year. We now expect net sales to grow between 13% and 17% over fiscal '24 and adjusted EBITDA to grow between 7% and 14%. Our strong first quarter performance, along with confidence in demand drove our decision to raise our guidance.

Before reviewing the category and brand updates, I want to share that our supplemental presentation and corresponding metrics now reflect expanded coverage of the Convenient Nutrition category as well as our business. In the new database, the total Convenient Nutrition category is now reported as $19 billion, up from $13 billion, a sizable increase in tract coverage. The new database provides a more accurate picture of the category across channels and a better reflection of our strong market position.

Now to category and brand updates. The Convenient Nutrition category grew 12% in Q1. As I mentioned last quarter, it is rapidly transforming into an everyday and sports nutrition category, with those segments driving the most of the growth and making up 75% of sales. From a form perspective, ready-to-drink growth accelerated, and continued to lead the category up 18%, driven by strong consumer demand. RTDs were the second fastest-growing category in the entire store, only behind eggs, which had unique supply demand dynamics.

Mainstream everyday and sports nutrition RTD brands continue to bring new consumers into the category and were up 31%. Ready to mix grew 8%, sustaining Q4's growth rate. Overall, we see the total Convenient Nutrition category momentum increase in Q1, and I look forward to an even stronger growth during the Q2 New Year, New Year season.

Turning to our brands. Premier Shake consumption growth accelerated this quarter up 23%. Growth was strong in all channels, driven by distribution expansion, accelerating velocities and incremental promotional activity. Expansion in form, including bottles and pack size, along with improved in stocks, drove the distribution gains. Our seasonal flavor, winter mint chocolate has demonstrated high incrementality to the brand and was the number two RTD item at a major mass retailer this season. Consumption growth continued with January up 17%.

Our brand metrics remained strong with Premier Protein reaching all-time highs in TDPs and household penetration. The brand continues to gain new consumers reaching 20% of household this quarter. In calendar year '24, Premier Protein grew household penetration 17%, a significant contributor to the overall RTD category growth. The brand's repeat and buy rate grew for the calendar year, demonstrating our category-leading consumer loyalty.

Premier Protein with RTD market share of 26% maintained its position as the number one brand in the RTD segment as well as the number one brand in the broader Convenient Nutrition category. All of this is especially encouraging because in a high growth category with low household penetration, we see plenty of room to continue to grow our brand and expand the overall category. Premier Protein powder continued its strong trajectory with consumption up 24% in Q1, behind strong velocities and distribution gains. We remain encouraged by the growth potential of Premier Protein brand in this format. Its household penetration reached 2% this quarter and during calendar year '24, Premier Powder's household penetration grew 22%, the second highest of any competitor in the powder category. We continue to believe Premier will be a contributor to mainstreaming the powder category in the same way that Premier did in ready-to-drink.

We're thrilled to share that our Premier Protein national marketing campaign hit screens late in December, just ahead of the New Year and New Year Season. It is a high energy spot that captures how Premier Protein brings joy to the health journey. Featuring the tagline Sweeten the Journey, it shows that healthy eating doesn't have to be hard, but can actually be enjoyable and fun. It is our first nationwide campaign since 2021 and will reach TV, streaming and social media audiences. Although early, the campaign is generating significant increases in search and traffic to our website is up 80% versus a year ago.

From an innovation standpoint, we launched a new line of premier protein products, our indulgent line, which are available in four decadent shake flavors and one powder flavor. These items are richer and creamier, targeting an incremental occasion -- a consumption occasion, while still delivering on the nutritionals that our consumers expect from the Premier brand. The items are building distribution and although early, are off to a promising start. More innovation is planned throughout fiscal '25.

In addition to exciting advertising and new products, we are updating our logo and redesigning our packaging for the first time in close to a decade. The refreshed design -- the refresh design builds on our strong performing current design and brings a modern look that improves discoverability of the shelf. We expect the updated design will start to hit the shelves in the second half.

Turning to the Dymatize. The international business drove the global brand this quarter, more than offsetting domestic headwinds. Despite recent US trends, the brand remains strong, holding the number two share position within sports nutrition powders, which represents about half of the overall powder category. While household penetration and overall distribution levels remain stable, we are starting to see some encouraging signs from both marketing -- from our marketing campaign as well as our new products.

Our marketing campaign with San Francisco running back Christian McCaffrey exceeded our benchmarks and drove strong lift to our brand metrics. As a result, we have expanded our core team of Dymatize athletes and influencers by partnering with tennis professional and Olympic medalist Tommy Paul, who is ranked number nine in the world.

On the innovation front, we launched two new platforms this quarter. We know that Dymatize consumers purchased both pre-workouts and RTD products. So in December, we launched RTD Shakes with Fruity and Coco Pebbles flavors as well as pre-workout powder called Energize available in three flavors. Early results for both products are positive, and we continue to be bullish on the sports nutrition category opportunity.

In closing, our Q1 results position us well for another above algorithm year. Our organization has officially pivoted to demand driving. Strong macro tailwinds around protein are driving robust long-term growth in our category with ready-to-drink and powder segments in the early stages of growth. Premier Protein is already the number one Convenient Nutrition brand and we are just starting to drive demand. Our innovation pipeline on both brands is rich, enabling us to bring excitement to consumers and our retail partners for years to come.

Last, we have a scalable, regionally diverse supply chain able to support our long-term growth projections. Our confidence in the long-term outlook for BelleRing remains high. We look forward to sharing our progress next quarter.

I will now turn the call over to Paul.

Paul Rode

Thanks, Darcy, and good morning, everyone. As Darcy highlighted, we had a good start to fiscal 2025. Net sales for the quarter were $533 million and adjusted EBITDA was $125 million. Net sales grew 24% over prior year and adjusted EBITDA increased 25%. Adjusted EBITDA margins were 23.5%, meaningfully exceeding our expectations.

Starting with brand performance, Premier Protein net sales grew 26% behind strong volume growth for RTD shakes and powders. Distribution gains, incremental promotions and organic growth drove the sales increase as well as a benefit from our price increase on shakes taken in Q4. Shipment dollar growth slightly outpaced consumption dollar growth. Dymatize net sales increased 13% this quarter on 12% higher volume. Similar to recent quarters, strength in the international business continued with double-digit sales growth. This was partly offset by domestic headwinds.

Gross profit of $200 million grew 35% with an increase in gross profit margin of 310 basis points to 37.5%. Our pricing actions offset modest input cost inflation in the quarter. We expect the rate of inflation to increase throughout the year. Compared to our expectations, first quarter gross margins benefited from $5 million of nonrecurring cost favorability and $1.5 million of unrealized mark-to-market gains on our commodity hedges, which combined drove margins higher by approximately 120 basis points.

SG&A expenses were $80 million, an increase of 270 basis points as a percentage of net sales with higher spend for advertising and promotion and warehousing the main drivers. Advertising promotion spend was 2.8% of net sales, up from 1.4% in last year's first quarter as we kicked off new campaigns for both Premier Protein and Dymatize. However, we shifted roughly $4 million of marketing spend from the first quarter to later in the year. This along with favorable gross margins contributed to adjusted EBITDA margins coming in above our expectations. Operating profit of $115 million increased $42 million compared to prior year and was positively impacted by lapping $17 million of accelerated amortization last year.

Before reviewing our outlook, I'd like to make a few comments on cash flow and liquidity. We generated $3 million in cash flow from operations in the first quarter. As anticipated, our working capital increased as we added shake supply to our inventory. Moving forward, we believe our inventory levels are largely normalized and accordingly, our adjusted EBITDA to cash flow conversion will improve for the remainder of the year. We continue to expect our cash flow in fiscal '25 to be in line with fiscal '24 and weighted to the back half of the year.

As of December 31, net debt was $790 million and net leverage was 1.7 times. With our EBITDA growth and strong cash flow generation, we anticipate net leverage will remain below 2 times throughout fiscal '25. With respect to our share repurchases this quarter, we bought 143,000 shares at an average price of $77.12 per share or $11 million in total. In January, we repurchased about 550,000 shares at an average price of $72.79 per share or $40 million. As of January 31, our remaining share repurchase authorization is $124 million.

Turning to our outlook, we raised our fiscal '25 guidance for net sales to be $2.26 billion to $2.34 billion and adjusted EBITDA of $470 million to $500 million. Our guidance implies strong top line growth of 13% to 17% and adjusted EBITDA growth of 7% to 14% with healthy adjusted EBITDA margins of 21.1% at the midpoint. As Darcy mentioned, our better than expected first quarter performance drove our decision to raise our outlook.

Before reviewing our second quarter outlook, I want to give some perspective on our cadence throughout the year. Overall, our quarterly sales phasing hasn't changed significantly from our November guide. Recall, we expect net -- we expect sales growth to be weighted to the first half of the year as the second half laps trade inventory loads in '24, which we estimate to be a mid single-digit headwind to our second half growth.

Regarding adjusted EBITDA, we have made some modest changes to our quarterly phasing. Recall, I mentioned we shifted marketing spend from the first quarter to the second half. Additionally, protein costs in the first half are trending slightly more favorable than expected and more unfavorable in the second half. The combination of these items in a stronger than expected first quarter has shifted EBITDA growth toward the first half. In addition, our guidance continues to include second half costs related to packaging redesign. As a result, we expect second half EBITDA margins to be modestly lower than the first half with the full year above our long term algorithm at 21%.

Moving to our second quarter forecast. We expect mid-to-high teens net sales growth with Premier Protein the main driver. Dime ties and all others expect to be flat to down year-over-year. We expect consumption dollar growth to be meaningfully exceed shipment dollar growth for Premier Shakes, which is typical in the second quarter.

We expect second quarter adjusted EBITDA margins to decline modestly compared to a year ago with significantly higher marketing spend more than offsetting higher gross margins. In closing, we are pleased with our strong start to fiscal '25. Our Q1 results gives us greater confidence in our full year outlook and long term growth prospects.

I will now turn it over to the operator for questions.