Rollins, Inc. (NYSE:ROL) Q4 2007 Earnings Call January 23, 2008 10:00 AM ET

Executives

Susan Garland - Investor Relations
Gary W. Rollins - President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Director
Harry J. Cynkus - Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

Analysts

Clint Fendley - Davenport
James Clement - Sidoti & Company
Patrick Stowe - Priority Capital

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Welcome to the Rollins fourth quarter conference call. (Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Susan Garland. Please go ahead, Madam.

Susan Garland

Thank you. By now you should have all received a copy of the press release. However, if anyone is missing a copy and would like to receive one, please contact our office at 212-827-3777. We will send you the release and make sure you are on the company’s distribution list.

There will be a replay of the call which will begin one hour after the call and run for one week. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-800-405-2236, pass code 11106089. Additionally, the call is being webcast over www.viavid.com and a replay will be available for 90 days.

On the line with us today are Gary Rollins, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Harry Cynkus, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Management will make some opening remarks and then we’ll open up the lines for questions. Gary, would you like to begin?

Gary W. Rollins

Yes. Thank you, Susan. Good morning and thank you all for joining our fourth quarter and year-end 2007 conference call. Harry will read our forward-looking statement disclaimer and then we’ll begin.

Harry J. Cynkus

Thank you, Gary. Our earnings release discusses our business outlook and contains certain forward-looking statements. These particular forward-looking statements and all other statements that may be made on this call excluding historical facts are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from any statement we make today.

Please refer to today’s press release and our SEC filings, including the risk factor section on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, for more information on the risk factors that could cause actual results to differ.

Gary W. Rollins

We were pleased with our fourth quarter results and record performance for the full year. As stated in our news release, this was the tenth consecutive year of improved financial results and we remain optimistic about our future. Revenues for the quarter increased 5.5% and 4.2% for the full year. This growth was a result of the momentum of our sales and marketing programs.

Our commercial pest control segment had a particularly strong year with our commercial sales team delivering our best overall results and the best year-over-year improvement in the history of the company. For the fourth quarter, commercial pest control sales were up 25% and up almost 14% for the full year. National account sales were equally impressive with a 45% increase over last year and up 16% for the year.

It should be noted that a good portion of the sales that were made in the fourth quarter are just now beginning to produce revenue in the first quarter of ’08. As an example, we have almost 3,500 new individual store locations for three national accounts that are now scheduled to start service in February.

I would like to voice my appreciation and acknowledgement to the members of our commercial sales team for such a terrific year and we are looking forward to an even better ’08.

Our specific industry concentration and excellent service performance are enabling us to increase new contract pricing. In 2007, we increased our average new commercial sales price by over 15%. Our average contract for our commercial customers has increased almost 23% over the past two years.

The maturation of our commercial and national account sales force, bolstered by greater experience and savvy, have likewise generated improvement in our average sales per employee.

As you can see, we are pretty pleased with this business segment.

Let me now turn to our other two service offerings, residential pest control and termite control. As many of you are aware, these units earlier were negatively impacted by the drought conditions in most of the country during the first half of ’07. We were fortunate, however, that our investment in web marketing helped offset our fall-off in conventional advertising leads. I’ll comment more on this in a few minutes.

We overcame this handicap and saw an increase in demand in both residential and termite services late in the season that carried through until the end of the year.

Another point concerning our termite business is there was significant reduction in termite claims and related expenses this past year. The number of paid claims for the year was down over $5 million and we ended this year with 26% fewer open claims than last year.

To put our claims in perspective, you need to keep in mind that less than one-half of 1% of our customers filed a claim in ’07 and those that did, close to 100% have been resolved to their complete satisfaction. Fewer claims, happier customers.

The revenue growth we enjoyed in all three lines of our business just mentioned is attributable in part to our national Orkin customer service center, or OCSC. We established this in ’06. Their role in part is to receive and sell the majority of our residential pest control leads and help us acquire and forward to our branches the termite control leads. We expect OCSC to contribute even greater to our growth this year as we

improve in both of these areas.

We are also pleased to have significant improvements in customer retention in commercial pest control and termite control. Residential pest control was flat.

Now let me expand on my earlier Internet marketing comments. During ’07, we continued to build upon the investment that we made in this area the previous year. This strategy is allowing us to use our size and national branch network to a competitive advantage. We expect our number of prospects for both residential and commercial web leads to increase even further in the new year.

Most importantly, we are continuing to learn how to better attract these prospects and convert an even higher percentage of those web leads into new customers.

To help us achieve these objectives, we’ve engaged a new search agency last month, 360I, to help us make it easier for customers to access Orkin. At the same time, we engaged in a new yellow page agency, YPM, to assist in improving our marketing in this area and to help us find new customers at a lower cost per customer.

Last year we determined that we needed to improve how we advertise and promote the Orkin brand in conventional media -- radio, TV, cable, et cetera, and subsequently hired The Richards Group of Dallas, Texas, as our agency of record.

We felt we needed to do a better job of communicating with our prospects and to be more effective in reaching our target audience. We’ve been working with them for the past few months and are very excited about our new partner and the work that they are doing with their advertisers, which incidentally will begin airing prior to our next conference call.

We are continuing to make progress on our routing and scheduling management system, or Orion, as we’ve named it. We expect to go live at several of our branches early in the second half of this year and we plan to have a completed and field tested system before the year is out. Due to our size, it may take as much as two years for a complete Orion rollout.

As stated on our last call, in preparation for Orion’s implementation, we are currently utilizing Map Point software, an off-shoot of our GPS system, to begin the first phase of route organization. Part of this initiative involves refining and standardizing our customer data, which likewise will be a precursor to our Orion conversion.

We continued to invest in our greatest asset, our people. Last year’s training became available to all employees in the U.S. and some parts of Canada via our Orkin TV satellite network. We also launched what we called our lifetime learning initiative aimed at helping all of our field employees grow and develop throughout their careers.

A top priority this year is to identify specific performance-based training opportunities to help employees develop to their highest potential. We were recognized this month for the sixth year in a row by Training Magazine as one of the top 125 companies that excel in human capital development.

Following on from our women’s leadership conference last fall, we have formed a women’s resource group to further develop initiatives to both recruit more women to Rollins and Orkin and to advance the careers of those presently at the company.

We are always proud of the individuals in our company who receive industry recognition. During ’07, among those distinguished were Paul Hardy Sr., Technical Director, who won the prestigious President’s Award from the National Pest Management Association; William Graves of Orkin's Indianapolis branch was named Termite Technician of the Year by Pest Control Technology Magazine; and our public relations team won the Silver Anvil award from the public relations society of America for its work in publicizing the recent increase in bed bug infestations throughout the U.S.

Overall we are very proud of our accomplishments this past year but remain challenged to improve. The more we accomplish, the more motivated our team is to stretch ourselves to improve our company for the benefit of our customers, employees, and shareholders.

I have mentioned a few objectives and plans we have for this year and we’ll be discussing these and others with you over the next quarters. I hope you can sense that we are extremely excited about our company’s opportunities in 2008.

I will now turn the call over to Harry. Harry.

Harry J. Cynkus

Thank you, Gary. Today we reported that fourth quarter revenue grew 5.5% and thanks primarily to our commercial sales team, this represents our best quarter for growth this year. Revenues totaled $216 million compared to $204.7 million for the fourth quarter last year. Net income for the quarter was $11.9 million as compared to $10.5 million last year, a 13.2% improvement, while diluted earnings per share this quarter is $0.12, a 20% improvement over the $0.10 reported last year in the fourth quarter. For the full year, revenues rose 4.2% to $894.9 million, net income rose 12% to $64.7 million, and diluted earnings per share increased 14.3%.

All EPS calculations are adjusted to reflect the three-for-two stock split that was effective in this quarter.

I’m particularly pleased to expand our discussion on this quarter’s revenue growth and the positive growth in all of our business lines. It’s been difficult to miss all the talk of economic concerns in the headlines these days but we have not seen much of an impact on our business to date. As Gary has previously stated, rats, roaches, and termites don’t read the Wall Street Journal.

But seriously, we are fortunate that pest control historically has been recession resistant.

Let’s start with our commercial pest control, which has been a key strategic focus of ours. This year it represents 44% of our business, though representing almost 46% in the fourth quarter. Excluding commercial fumigations, our commercial revenue grew 10.3%. Let me repeat that -- our commercial revenue excluding fumigations, which is somewhat lumpy, grew 10.3%. That just sounds and feels so good. And including fumigation grew 9.8%.

For some time, we have stated that we felt our commercial pest control offering has the opportunity to not only outpace the residential pest control’s growth rate but approach 10% growth and this quarter’s results certainly validates that statement.

With the continued maturation of our sales force, our average monthly sales for our commercial account managers continues to increase. Fueled by a strong pipeline of sales proposals, we look forward to continuing positive momentum from our commercial pest control business.

Our residential pest control service, which now represents almost 37% of the business, grew 3.4%. Our termite service line also grew. Normally I wouldn’t be bragging about eking out a small, three-tenths of 1% gain in the quarter; however, we believe that industry wide termite business growth may have been significantly negative for the year.

For the quarter, our gross margins improved by 70 basis points. This represented an improvement in gross margin to 45.7% versus 45% last year. Although some progress was made in several areas, the most significant increase in margin is primarily due to continued improvements in the cost of risk. Total insurance, litigation, and claim expense improved 70 margin points. These reductions were due to the success of the company’s loss control programs for both casualty and termite claims, which more than offset an increase in litigation cost in the quarter.

In addition, we experienced improvements in service productivity reflecting the preliminary route optimization that is underway in anticipation of Orion, our permanent routing and scheduling solution. This improvement was offset by greater fleet costs reflecting the higher cost of fuel in the quarter. Keep in mind that major improvements of service productivity will ultimately result in lower fleet expense.

Sales, general and administrative expenses for the fourth quarter ended December 31st increased $5.4 million or 7.8% to 34.6% of revenues from 33.8% for the fourth quarter last year.

Salary expense increased as expected due to the expansion of our staffing in our national call center, along with some higher technology costs related to resulting technology initiatives in this area.

On the favorable side, the company experienced reductions in both bad debt expense and summer sales program costs. Tax rate for the full year was 38.3% versus 39.3% last year due to an increase in our tax exempt interest income and we were able to favorably resolve some state tax issues.

The company continues to generate superior cash flows. Our cash position and balance sheet remain very strong. Cash and cash equivalents this quarter stand at $71.3 million, with practically no debt. We’ve completed the funding of our pension plan with this quarter’s $5 million contribution. Our plan as of 12/31 is now fully funded based in actuarial assumptions. I’m sure a lot of companies would like to be able to make that claim.

Our net cash provided by operating activities for the year totaled $89 million, increasing $3.8 million over last year. We continued to return money and value to our shareholders through our dividend as well as our ongoing stock buy-back programs. Through these two programs, we returned over $62 million to our shareholders this year.

Speaking of dividends, the board of directors in yesterday’s meeting increased the quarterly dividend 25% to $0.0625 per share. This marks now the sixth consecutive year the dividend has been increased a minimum of 20%.

As to stock buy-backs, we’ve purchased 2,373,000 shares in 2007 under our previously approved plan and have authorized an additional million shares to purchase.

Remember, our cash generation will be greater than earnings as nearly half of our depreciation and amortization, or $13.4 million for the year, represents write-offs of intangibles, primarily customer contracts valued at time of acquisition.

This represents a significant non-cash charge to the P&L. Based upon our fully diluted shares outstanding, it represents a non-cash, after tax charge of $0.08 to GAAP EPS this year and next.

Last week we had our 2008 region manager meeting and I don’t remember a prior meeting with this much enthusiasm as voiced this year by our management team. We look forward to report another year of steady and consistent sales and earnings growth as we convert that enthusiasm to execution of our growth and operational strategies.

I will now turn the call back over to Gary.

Gary W. Rollins

Thank you, Harry. We are now ready to open the call for any questions that you might have.