Rollins, Inc. (NYSE:ROL) Q4 2019 Results Conference Call January 29, 2020 10:00 AM ET

Company Participants

Marilyn Meek - Investor Relations
Gary Rollins - Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
John Wilson - President and Chief Operating Officer
Eddie Northen - Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Mario Cortellacci - Jefferies
Jamie Clement - Buckingham Research
Tim Mulrooney - William Blair
Brian Butler - Stifel
Seth Weber - RBC Capital Markets

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Rollins, Inc. Fourth Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to introduce your host for today's call, Marilyn Meek. Ms. Meek, you may begin.

Marilyn Meek

Thank you, Cassidy. By now you should have all received a copy of the press release. However, if anyone is missing a copy and would like to receive one, please contact our office at 212-827-3746 and we will send you a release and make sure you are on the Company's distribution list.

There will be a replay of the call, which will begin one hour after the call and run for one week. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-888-203-1112 with the passcode 1421446. Additionally, the call is being webcast at www.viavid.com, and a replay will be available for 90 days.

On the line with me today and presenting are Gary Rollins, Rollins' Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Wilson, Rollins' President and Chief Operating Officer; and Eddie Northen, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Management will make some opening remarks and then we will open the line for your questions.

Gary, would you like to begin.

Gary Rollins

Yes, Marilyn, thank you, and good morning. We appreciate all of you joining us for our fourth quarter 2019 conference call. Eddie will read our forward-looking statement and disclaimer and then we will begin.

Eddie Northen

Our earnings release discusses our business outlook and contains certain forward-looking statements. These particular forward-looking statements and all other statements that have been made on this call, excluding historical facts, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual risks may differ materially from any statement we make today. Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings, including the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for more information and the risk factors that could cause actual results to differ.

Gary Rollins

Thank you, Eddie. Revenues for the fourth quarter grew 13.8% to $506 million compared to $444.6 million for the same quarter in 2018. Net income was approximately $50.8 million or $0.16 per diluted share compared to $51 million or $0.16 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of last year.

Revenues for the full-year increased 10.6% to $2.015 billion compared to $1.822 billion for 2018. We are all pleased that we broke the $2 billion milestone. Net income for the full-year was $203.3 million with earnings per share of $0.62. This compared to net income of $231.7 million or $0.71 per diluted share last year. Net income this year was negatively impacted by $50 million one-time charge for closing down our pension plan and a casualty reserve increase. Eddie will address these charges further in a few minutes.

We continue to experience good solid growth in all of our business lines for the quarter, with residential up 16.5%, commercial, excluding fumigation, rose 9.8%; and termite and ancillary services grew 16.1%.

During the fourth quarter a question that we heard on a regular basis from investors was, what is your exposure to termite damage claims. I thought this might be a good time to provide some history and background on our termite claims and the service initiatives that were implemented over many years of treating and protecting structures of termite infestations and damage.

As background, Chlordane was used as a pesticide in the United States from 1948 to 1988, 40 years. Among its numerous uses, Chlordane was a very effective termiticide to control against termite infestations in homes and other structures. In fact, from 1983 to 1988, Chlordane use was narrowed to only control termites. In 1988, all approved uses of Chlordane in the United States were canceled. Orkin had stopped treating for Chlordane with - a year before.

It is noteworthy that, prior to this action, our Company negotiated an agreement between the Velsicol Chemical Company, the manufacturer and the EPA, where Velsicol to voluntarily stop manufacturing Chlordane and that it not be banned, they both agreed. This helped Orkin and the industry to avoid a potential law suit stampede like the asbestos situation.

In the mid-'90s, the state of the post-Chlordane termite world was daunting. The replacement chemicals didn't work as well as Chlordane. However, the new termiticide that had been so positively promoted by the manufacturers and endorsed by the EPA failed miserably. This failure happened within a very short period of time.

Termites returned to our customers' home as well as other pest control companies' customers' homes with a vengeance. Orkin, which at one time led the industry with its lifetime repair guarantees, was suddenly faced with a major business challenge. There were millions of dollars in repair costs now appearing due to termite damage along with corresponding retreatment obligations.

In 1996, Orkin took a very important step and began a proactive retreatment program with a better new product targeting all the homes that had previously been treated with the ineffective termite product.

Simply, we wanted to curtail the termite damage before it occurred, and provide our customers the protection they deserve. We put our customers first at the cost of more than a $100 million. Our lifetime guarantees will replace the three to five retreatment guarantees depending on the area of country and the type of home construction.

Our 1996 P&L resulted - reflected Orkin's retreatment efforts and Orkin's revenues increased 1%, while operating income and profit margins decreased 50%. The decrease in termite revenues, termite claims, and retreatment expense negatively impact our financial results. Incidentally, we are all proud to work for a Company that made this forward-looking investment to protect our customers, our brand, and reputation.

1997, the following year, we set up a $117 million reserve fund to cover the escalating cost of termite claims. We knew we had to make these extra efforts and made the conscious decision to provide free retreatments and promptly pay for any termite damage repairs that occur.

While the short-term costs were extremely painful, they appropriately protected our reputation and balance sheet. This turning point always caused us - also caused us to make further enhancements in termite treating training, the utilization of flow meters to measure the volume of termiticide applied, and the use of foam as a chemical carrying agent in difficult-to-treat structures.

We created a national termite swarm school to service technicians attended annually before each termite treating season. We created a termite quality audit and compliance team to visit our branches to ensure our treating specs and procedures were being followed. We also required our managers to do a quality inspection on all completed termite treatments.

All of these actions still exist today. I could go on and on with more than a dozen other initiatives that we took over the following years to ensure we provided the industry's best termite treatments. All of these actions have reduced our termite reserve and other related costs tremendously.

I will now turn the call over to John for more insight on our termite war and other areas of business.

John Wilson

Thank you, Gary. As Gary just noted, by the mid-'90s, it was clear the replacement chemicals didn't work as well as Chlordane in the treatment of termites. In the three years prior to 1995, Orkin's termite damage claims averaged around $3 million per year. Over the next couple of years, the claims expense multiplied in dramatic fashion. By 1997 and for several years thereafter, termite damage claims exceeded $20 million a year.

Decisions were made by our leadership team to improve process, training, and treatment protocols. These new processes were then developed by our technical services group, led by industry icon Paul Hardy, and many other members of our team.

This approach allowed our operations to focus on meeting all obligations to their customers. The Companywide quality assurance program Orkin put into place during that time concentrated solely on termite issues and helped us to get out in front of this accelerating termite issue.

We also addressed the Formosan termite at that time, which has made recent headlines, as they were already a growing concern. In other words, our quality assurance team as well as many other actions taken served over time to de-risk our termite service business. As a result of these many actions and activities, we have seen a steady decline in claims and retreatments from year-to-year.

It is easy to put your finger on the many things mentioned that we changed. What is not so easy to put a finger on is the cultural change that had to occur with our field teams. It was painful, it was hard and it was costly from both a financial and human capital standpoint, and it also took a long time, but it was worth it in the long run. In more recent years, as we have continued to work on this issue, we have experienced further reductions in termite damage claims.

The average amount of each claim has fallen from the highest seen in the early to middle part of the 2000s. For 2019, Rollins experienced historically low termite claim volumes and termite claims expenses were below 1% of termite revenues for the full-year.

This is the direct result of the many quality control programs leadership initiated. We certainly appreciate your concerns around termite damage claims and we never take anything for granted. We take our responsibility to our termite customer seriously and hope that we have now given you enough information to understand our experience better.

So let's turn the page on that topic and talk about something else for a minute. As most of you know, we got off to a slow start last year. We are certainly prepared to do everything we can to not repeat that performance. Pursuant to that, in early January, we concluded a week-long regional manager leadership meeting in Atlanta.

We had over 100 of our leaders in from around the world for this event. This meeting focused on, among several priorities, improving our safety culture and practices, the customer experience, etc. But maybe most important of all, we were focused on lessons learned from a year ago and what not to do to repeat those mistakes.

It is said that the best learned lessons are the hardest. And after this last year, I believe that to be true. We came away from this meeting energized, that our teams were ready and up to the challenge, and pretty darn glad to put 2019 behind them.

Thank you, and I will now turn the call back over to Eddie.

Eddie Northen

Thanks, John. Before I begin my review of the financial numbers for the quarter, I want to recognize the solid results that our operations produced during the second half of the year. After mother nature deviated from her normal path in Q1 and Q2, the weather pattern turned more normal and the results of our operations produced record revenue growth in the quarter, strong double-digit EBITDA growth, and continued improvements in both employee and customer retention.

Specifically, our Orkin employee retention increased 1.8 percentage points and our commercial service line improved the most of all three service lines for retention year-over-year. Consistency and experienced management matters. I also hope that the details that both Gary and John shared related to our termite service will put to rest any concerns that you have about the recent termite discussions in our industry.

For the quarter, we had strong revenue growth and items that impacted the quarter were, rising accident and insurance expense that reduced the Q4 results by a $0.01, depreciation increase related to the final stages of the BOSS rollout in Canada, and a very successful pilot of the next phase of routing and scheduling journey.

In addition to reporting our Q4 and full-year numbers, my focus today will be to share the non-operational event that impacted our Q4 results, specifically casualty and insurance related to accidents and injuries. Lastly, I will give you some insight on some items that have 2020 already off to a great start.

First, I will go through the results. Looking at the numbers, the fourth quarter revenues of $506 million, was an increase of 13.8% over the prior year's fourth quarter revenue of $444.6 million. Income before income taxes was $72 million or 0.008% above 2018.

Net income was $50.8 million, down 0.004% compared to 2018 and impacted by a higher tax rate in the quarter due to the pension adjustment in Q3. Our GAAP earnings per share were $0.16 per diluted share and EBITDA was $97.1 million and rose 10.5% compared to 2018.

When looking at the full-year 2019 numbers, keep in mind that the almost $50 million pension adjustment that was made in Q3 to transition our pension off of the Rollins books. For the year, we are calling out the pension adjustment, Clark acquisition expense, and currency for our non-GAAP results.

For the full-year, revenue was $2.015 billion, an increase of 10.6% over the prior year's 12-month revenue of $1.822 billion. Income before income taxes decreased 16% to $261.2 million from $310.7 million in 2018. Net income fell 12.2% to $203.3 million and earnings per share were $0.62, down 12.7% from 2018 numbers of $0.71. EBITDA was $349.2 million, down 7.5% compared to 2018.

Without the pension adjustment, our non-GAAP income before income tax was up 0.001% to $311.1 million compared to $310.7 million in 2018. Our net income was down 0.008% to $229.9 million and earnings per share were $0.70 per diluted share, down from $0.71 per diluted share in 2018. Adjusted EBITDA, including our Q3 pension loss, was $399.1 million, up 5.8%.

Our Companywide focus on personal safety since 2016 has created reductions in our casualty reserve in the last few years. However, the combination of additional Clark vehicles and properties and substantially higher premium rates experienced within the industry caused our casualty reserve for accidents and injuries to increase over 5% in 2019 and impacted the quarter by roughly a $0.01.

As John shared with you earlier, we reviewed these opportunities extensively at our recent annual leadership kickoff meeting and have good initiatives to reduce the frequency and severity of our automotive and workers' compensation claims. As we continue to refresh our automotive fleet, a growing percentage of our vehicles have enhanced safety features and when coupled with our enhanced training, will result in better injury and accident outcomes moving forward.

Safety is becoming an ingrained value at Rollins and we will see the benefits of this as we move forward in 2020. We will share more of this journey in future quarters. As we discussed last quarter, our operational efficiency and customer experience continued to improve with ongoing updates to our routing and scheduling. I am pleased to share some details with regards to the next step in our journey.

First, beginning back in 2015, we rolled out our branch operating system or CRM called BOSS. And in stages, improved our technicians' routing and scheduling. At the time, we stated that we would see a 200 basis points to 300 basis points margin improvement with these changes.

And as you probably know, we exceeded that amount over the next several years. We have successfully piloted our next phase of routing and scheduling, which will include the level customer loading of the pest control technicians jobs based on customer demand, but keeping in mind customer needs.

On top of the over 4 million miles that we have reduced in the last few years, we will see accelerating mileage reduction, which will equate to margin improvement of another 150 basis points to 250 basis points over the next two to three years. This step is phase two of a robust four phase routing and scheduling initiative that will drive improved efficiency for years to come.

Let's take a look through the Rollins revenue by service line for the fourth quarter. Our total revenue increase of 13.8% included 8.1% from Clark and other acquisitions and the remaining 5.7% was from pricing and organic growth.

In total, residential pest control, which made up 43% of our revenue, was up 16.5%, commercial pest control, ex-fumigation, which made up 38% of our revenue was up 9.8%, and termite and ancillary services, which made up approximately 19% of our revenue, was up 16.1%. Again, total revenue less acquisitions was up 5.7%. From that, residential was up 6%, commercial, ex-fumigation, increased 3.6%, and termite and ancillary grew by 8.7%.

There are two items that I would like to note. First, the continued growth of our mosquito program at over 30% rate has more than offset the slowdown in our one-time bed bug business and helped our residential product with continued strong growth. And second, we experienced the fastest termite and ancillary growth in the past six years.

In total, gross margin reduced to 49.7% from 50.2% in the prior year's quarter. The quarter experienced expense increases in several categories, mostly driven by Clark in the categories of service salaries, administrative salaries, and personnel-related for our 401-K match. Additionally, insurance and claims were up substantially as discussed earlier. Removing the impact of Clark, gross margin improved to 50.6% in 2019, compared to 50.2% in 2018.

Depreciation and amortization expenses for the quarter increased $6 million to $22.6 million, an increase of 35.8%. Depreciation increased $2.7 million due to acquisitions and equipment purchases as mentioned earlier, while amortization of intangible assets increased $3.3 million, due to the amortization of customer contracts from several large acquisitions. Our depreciation in Q1 of 2020 will be slightly higher as we finalize the BOSS rollout in Canada and move to the next phase of our routing and scheduling journey as discussed earlier.

Sales, general and administrative expenses for the fourth quarter increased $19 million or 14% to $154.8 million or 30.6% of revenues, up 0.001% from $135.8 million or 30.5% of revenues for the fourth quarter of 2018. The increase in the percent of revenues is primarily due to insurance and claims and acquisitions, particularly advertising spend for Clark that was not in our 2018 number.

Before I review our cash position, I want to update the state of our current cash flow. As I mentioned on the Q3 call, we have accelerated our free cash flow by over $40 million for the year, which compares to an average of around $20 million over the past five years. Not only do we see benefits to our cash flow related to the acquisition of Clark Pest Control, but we will also see some residual improvements from our pension transition.

As for our cash position, for the period ended December 31, 2019 we spent $430.6 million on acquisitions compared to $76.8 million at the same period last year. We paid $153.8 million on dividends and had $27.1 million of CapEx, which were both flat to 2018. We ended the period with $94.3 million in cash, of which $74.1 million is held by our foreign subsidiaries.

Yesterday, the Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of $0.12 per share that will be paid on March 10, 2020 to stockholders of record at the close of business February 10, 2020. The cash dividend is a 14.3% increase over the prior year's quarterly dividend. This marks the 18th consecutive year the Board has increased our dividend by a minimum of 12%.

Gary, I will turn the call back over to you.

Gary Rollins

Well, thank you, Eddie. We are happy to take your questions at this time.