Rollins Inc. (NYSE:ROL) Q4 2015 Results Earnings Conference Call January 27, 2016 10:00 AM ET

Executives

Marilynn Meek - IR
Gary Rollins - Vice Chairman and CEO
Eddie Northen - VP, CFO and Treasurer
John Wilson - President and COO

Analysts

James Clement - Macquarie
Joan Tong - Sidoti & Company
Sean Egan - KeyBanc Capital
Roland Underhill - Underhill Investments

Operator

Good morning. And welcome to the Rollins Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will be conducting a Q&A session, and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to introduce your host for today's call, Marilynn Meek. Ms. Meek, you may begin.

Marilynn Meek

Thank you. By now you should have all received a copy of the press release. However, if anyone is missing a copy and would like to receive one, please contact our office at (212) 827-3746 and we will send you a release and make sure you are on the company's distribution list.

There will be a replay of the call, which will begin one hour after the call and run for one week. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1 (888) 203-112 with the pass code 8962426. Additionally, the call is being webcast at www.viavid.com and a replay will be available for 90 days.

On the line with me today are Gary Rollins, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Eddie Northen, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Management will make some opening remarks and then we'll open up the line for your questions.

Gary, would you like to begin?

Gary Rollins

Sure. Thank you, Marilynn, and good morning. We appreciate all of you joining us for our fourth quarter and year end 2015 conference call. Eddie will read our forward-looking statements and disclaimer and then we will begin.

Eddie Northen

Our earnings release discusses our business outlook and contains certain forward-looking statements. These particular forward-looking statements and all other statements that we made on this call excluding historical facts are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual risks may differ materially from any statement we make today.

Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings including the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, for more information and the risk factors that could cause actual results to differ.

Gary Rollins

Thank you, Eddie. Before I begin, I want to introduce John Wilson. We have another attendee at today's investor call. John is President and COO of Rollins. He is new to our investor calls but certainly not new to Rollins. You may recall that John was promoted in 2013 to President and COO.

Prior to that John has been President of Orkin USA. He began his carrier as a technician and sales inspector while in college and joined the company full time in 1996, as a branch manager trainee. He's had various positions of increasing responsibility beginning as a Branch Manager, Region Manager, Vice President and President of the Southeast Division. He intended the University of Tennessee and he has completed the Executive Program at the University of Virginia, Darden School of Business.

Rollins Board of Directors' named John an Officer and Vice President in 2011. John is doing a terrific job, he is an important part of our success and our future.

We were extremely pleased to have posted record results for the quarter, as well as our 18th consecutive year of improved revenues and profits. For the quarter revenue grew 5.4% of 362.5 million compared to 344 million in last year's fourth quarter.

Income before taxes rose 11.3% to $51.8 million, compared to$ 46.5 million for the prior year period. Net income rose 6.1% to $31.7 million or $0.15 per share compared to net income of $29.9 million or $0.14 per diluted share for the same quarter last year.

Revenues for the full year rose 5.2% to $1.485 billion, compared to a $1.412 billion for the same period last year. Income before income taxes increased 10.8% to $243.2 million compared to $219.5 million in the prior year.

Net income increased 10.5% to $152.1 million with earnings per diluted share of $0.70 compared to $137.7 million or $0.63 per diluted share for the same period. We completed another record year in revenue and profits. All of our business lines experienced growth during the quarter with residential pest control up 6.1%, commercial pest control grew 3.2%, and termite rose 6.2%.

We are also very pleased with our progress that our specialty clients made last year with all of those reported improved sales and profitability. These are nonworking pest control and wildlife companies. Their results underscore the value that we’re experiencing in acquiring selective, market leading pest control in wildlife.

Speaking of wildlife, our business there also enjoyed a good year. TruTech grew substantially and Critter Control which we acquired in February of last year performed above our expectations. We are very excited about the potential for this service line going forward.

HomeTeam also had a better year as the housing market continue to improve particularly among the world class builders they partner with such as Lennar Homes, PulteGroup, Toll Brothers, DR Horton and Meritage Homes. Revenues for the full year grew approximately 8%. Eddie will provide more details on HomeTeam as well with the specialty companies in a few minutes.

Installation and drive zone ancillary businesses which include bedbugs and mosquitoes, continues to perform well. Bedbugs have not gone away and we are benefitting from good revenue increases in aggregate.

Some of you may have noted in recent media coverage that the latest threat from mosquitoes, Zika. One national news agency have headlined this article as disease perforate [ph], mosquitoes become public enemy number one.

Zika is a rare virus that is not made any impact from its discovery in the 1940s until now. Like Guillain-Barré, Zika is spread by the same species of mosquitoes which can be found in much of the USA. In the past year, Zika has spread from Africa and Asia to the Americas.

Although Zika was first diagnosed in Brazil in May, it is been linked to more than 3500 cases of infant deformity. The leading experts predict that the USA needs to be prepared for a similar scenario. This situation is unfortunate. However based on our experience with the West Nile outbreak, publicity concerning mosquitoes risk will accelerate.

We’re particularly pleased with the success that we had this year with the rollout of our CRM system, BOSS. We ended 2015 with 50% of our Orkin branches on this system. In December, we picked up our pace and began rolling-out this branch operating system to two regions a month and currently expect to have all Orkin locations on BOSS by the end of the third quarter of this year. This is ahead of our previous target completion day.

This time last year we discussed that one of the important advantages of BOSS was the feature of issuing iPhones to our technicians to help them better complete their customer administrative requirements.

At the end of this past year, 2600 of our technicians were using our iPhones to provide customer better communication and acknowledgment of their service, while improving our branch administrative productivity.

You may also recall that we recently completed the service manager check-in dashboard which provides a real time, online display of all technician services and status and where they stand on completing their routes.

Additionally, this data can identify opportunities for a newly sole customer to receive a same-day service store. These are just two examples of major benefits to systems providing and improving customer service, while making our operations more efficient.

Our technology team wasn't solely focused on BOSS however. During this past year, they upgraded and replaced a number of our retired support systems, to provide better financial reporting and communications, while improving our customer experience and reducing costs.

Our marketing folks were major contributor to our success last year. They continue to up their game across all of our marketing channels, digital, mobile, traditional media. And frankly, we are getting better at reaching our target prospects, and identifying the best channels in which to reach them.

As you are aware, we established a in-house analytical team couple of years ago, to help us better understand our customer's preferences and to know more about price elasticity. Their contribution is allowing us to take our marketing plans to another level.

Like so much of what we do, we see the marketing of our brands is a work in progress. It just keeps evolving and we look forward to even greater contributions in this area in the future.

We also continue to add to our roster of franchises globally having established a total of seven international franchises in the first half of the year. We opened franchises in India, China, Central America, and Mexico.

In the fourth quarter we announced that Orkin extended its presence in North America, South America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia with the addition of nine new franchises. These new franchises are located in Mexico, Columbia, Republic of Georgia, Qatar, China and South Korea. As of this date we have 48 international franchises.

We look to expand our franchise footprint both domestically and internationally while at the same time working more closely with our franchise partners that help to improve their business. Strategic acquisitions remain a priority for us and as in the past we will continue to seek out companies that are a fit for us in both the pest control and wildlife areas of our business.

The service business is first and foremost a people business and our employees are our most important asset. A major priority for us every year is to prove on the retention of our employees. Our employee retention rate again improved in 2015. We continue to work with our employees to ensure that they are receiving the very best training if they need to be successful and to advance their career. We want them to feel that they have a future at our company and a career not just a job.

2015 is now behind us and I want to express how proud I am of what our employees and franchise partners accomplished during the year. The dedication to continuous improvement is the driving force behind our success. Equally important of what we accomplished and learned during the year is that we set the stage for initiatives that will help us continue to grow our revenue and profits in the New Year. We’re looking forward to achieving another record year. All of our team members will be working diligently to improve the customers' experience.

We look forward in discussing with you the progress that we are making throughout the year and I am now going to turn the call over to Eddie. Eddie?

Eddie Northen

Thank you, Gary. I had the opportunity last week to attend my first Rollins leadership conference. For me it was a time to connect with many that I spent time with learning the business over the past year and meeting many other new faces. I share this because this event continue to confirm a key reason for our consistent performance, the depth of our strong management teams.

That consistency continued with our 39th consecutive quarter of improved earnings results. Behind the record setting results are managers, technicians, franchisees, sales and support staff that take the continuous improvement culture and execute year-after-year. I want to extend my heartfelt thanks for the tireless efforts of each of these groups and for their commitment to these outstanding results.

We had a strong performance in the fourth quarter with all service lines showing continued growth. Keys to the quarter included strong revenue gains, significant growth in the number of international franchises and Australia’s improved profitability. That was offset by currency headwinds and slower growth from acquisitions. A few onetime tax events impacted the net income.

Looking at the numbers, the company reported fourth quarter revenues of 362.5 million, an increase of 5.4% over the prior year's fourth quarter revenues of 344 million. All brands, all segments and all geographies performed well as measured in constant currency.

For the quarter income before income tax increased 11.3% to 51.8 million but due to a less favorable tax rate created by our few onetime events, the net income increased 6.1% to 31.7 million with earnings per share of 7.1% to $0.15 versus $0.14 per diluted share last year in the fourth quarter.

This year’s fourth quarter tax rate was higher than the rate for last year’s fourth quarter. At the end of 2014, we had a beneficial adjustment that reduced the effective tax rate and this year we had a few detrimental adjustments such as an increase to the reserve for uncertain tax positions and an increase in certain disallowed expenses that while small individually, collectively affected the quarter.

Also our foreign taxes were a bit higher than last year due to the growth of our foreign operations. For the year revenue came in at 1.485 billion a 5.2% increase. Net income for the full year increased 10.5% to a 152.1 million or $0.70 per diluted share with EBITDA coming in at 288 million.

I want to take a minute to highlight the efforts of our Australia team, as I’m sure you remember a year ago we were sharing the successful purchase of our second company in a suburb of Melbourne. Even with the slowing economy, our Australia operations grew revenue 9.4% and is profitable for the year. We are very proud of the results for this team and excited about our future in Australia.

Let’s take a look through the revenue by service line. Our total revenue increase of 5.4% included approximately 6.4% underlying sales and pricing growth and 10.4% contribution from acquisitions offset by a currency headwind of approximately 1.4%.

Residential pest control was up to consistent 6.1%, commercial pest control up 3.2%, and termite up an impressive 6.2%. Critter Control was the only major acquisition that was included in our numbers for the quarter.

As I mentioned last quarter, we realigned our sales force which helped contribute to the impressive revenue growth numbers. With the use of our home suite iPad technology, the sales force was a large contributor to the 6.2% termite growth for the quarter.

The use of this technology along with the opportunity to offer in-house financing through our own Rollins acceptance corporation has helped us to grow the revenue and ancillary businesses.

In addition I want to recognize the efforts of our inbound sales group who did an outstanding job keeping up with the increase demand late in the year. As you know, this is normally a slower season for pest control but November and December were incredibly strong and this team did a great job working with the operations group in meeting this demand. All of these teams did an outstanding job.

Again for the quarter, when we take out the impact of foreign currency, residential which makes up 41% of our revenue through 6.3%, termite which makes up 17% of our revenue was up 6.9% and commercial pest control which is 41% of the revenue was up 5.8%. Commercial was most impacted by the weak Canadian and Australian dollars as most of our business in these countries is commercial.

As HomeTeam begins their 20th year of service, I want to spend a few minutes highlighting some of their many accomplishments that would have made our founder O. Wayne Rollins himself very proud.

In 2015 HomeTeam grew 93,000 Taexx tubes in the wall installs to bring the life to date total to over 900,000 homes. In 2015, revenue grew 8.1% which was primarily driven by an increase in Taexx system activation of 16.5%. Also HomeTeam saw an increase in sales efficiencies which resulted in decreased customer acquisition costs.

Due to its environmental friendliness and high customer satisfaction, termite baiting is becoming a preferred treatment method in HomeTeam growing pre-treat business. This has opened up a new area of opportunity for the future which offers HomeTeam higher customer activation and improved retention over alternative methods of pre-treats.

In total, gross margin for the quarter improved to 49.7% versus 49.1% in the prior year. The margin for the quarter benefited from lower fleet costs due to a decrease in fuel price and lower service salaries as a percent to revenue offset by personnel related costs due to increased healthcare costs and higher material costs due to the increased sales. The company maintained good cost controls across most spending categories.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the fourth quarter increased 10.8% totaling 11.3 million. Depreciation was 5.1 million increasing 175,000 with most of that increase related to our new BOSS CRM system.

Amortization was 6.3 million which increased 265,000 due to the addition of Critter Control customer contracts that will be amortized over seven years. For the full year amortization of intangibles which is typically from the value assigned to acquired customer contracts or representing significant after-tax noncash charge was approximately $0.07 this year.

A rollout of us is ahead of plan. As Garry mentioned, we now have over 2600 pest control technicians with iPhone's and who are now paperless. We will give a more in-depth update on our Q1 call but I want to share another BOSS benefit that will also impact our initiative of improving our routing and scheduling.

One of the benefits is our ability to schedule or reschedule while the customer is on the phone and immediately update the technician on the iPhone. This will have an immediate positive impact to our customer experience.

We’ve begun training on the routing and scheduling portion of BOSS called Virtual Route Management or VRM. Our IP Group has set up a support desk and put together seven training videos that will help the branches use the basic routing functionality that has been built into BOSS.

The training will include topics such as route set ups, route territory planning, route optimization for scheduled accounts, optimizing routes and balancing route production. For the year cost associated with BOSS had a $0.05 impact on earnings per share and we anticipated similar impact in 2016 as we roll-out the remaining Orkin divisions. At this time we're still assessing the next steps for BOSS related to the independent brands and we will share those when these plans have been finalized.

Sales, general and administrative expenses for the quarter increased 46.2 million or 5.6% but remained flat for last year at 32.4% of revenues. A reduction of areas of bad debt and lower administrative costs reflecting ongoing cost containment programs were offset by higher insurance expenses, higher advertising and higher sales salaries related to our increased volume.

Our balance sheet remains strong as we continue to look for more opportunities to reinvest in our business. For the year we spent over 33 million on acquisitions even though we attempted to use a lot more. Our pipeline is full of opportunities for 2016 with mergers and acquisitions.

We had 39 million of CapEx for the year and had 134 million in cash along with no debt for the full year. As you may have read last night the Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of $0.10 per share that will be paid on March 10, 2016 to stockholders of record at the close of business February 10, 2016. The cash dividend will represent a 25% increase over the prior quarterly dividend. This marks the 14th consecutive year the Board has increased our dividend by a minimum of 12% or greater.

2015 was a great year and I’m strongly encouraged that we will have a great 2016. Our management team is focused and energized to continue to raise the bar for our customer service and this will translate into improving financial success.

I'll now turn the call back over to Gary.

Gary Rollins

Thank you. We're ready now to open the call for any questions that you might have.