Rollins, Inc. (NYSE:ROL) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call January 27, 2021 10:00 AM ET

Company Participants

Joe Calabrese - Investor Relations
Gary Rollins - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
John Wilson - Vice Chairman
Jerry Gahlhoff - President, Chief Operating Officer
Eddie Northen - Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Julie Bimmerman - Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations

Conference Call Participants

Tim Mulrooney - William Blair
Mario Cortellacci - Jefferies
Michael Hoffman - Stifel

Operator

Greetings and welcome to the Rollins, Inc. Fourth Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to your host, Joe Calabrese. You may begin.

Joe Calabrese

However, if anyone is missing a copy and would like to receive one, please contact our office at 212-827-3746 and we will send you a release and make sure you are on the company’s distribution list. There will be a replay of the call, which will begin 1 hour after the call and run for 1 week. The replay can be accessed by dialing 844-512-2921, with the passcode 13714448. Additionally, the call is being webcast at www.viavid.com and a replay will be available for 90 days.

On the line with me today and presenting are Gary Rollins, Rollins’ Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Wilson, Rollins’ Vice Chairman; Jerry Gahlhoff Jr., President, Chief Operating Officer; Eddie Northen, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; Julie Bimmerman, Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations. Management will make some opening remarks and we will then open the line for your questions. Gary, would you like to begin?

Gary Rollins

Yes, Joe. Thank you and good morning. We appreciate all of you joining us for our fourth quarter and year end 2020 conference call. Julie will read our forward-looking statement and disclaimer and then we will begin.

Julie Bimmerman

Our earnings release discusses our business outlook and contains certain forward-looking statements. These particular forward-looking statements and all other statements that have been made on this call, excluding historical facts, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual risks may differ materially from any statement we make today. Please refer to today’s press release and our SEC filing, including the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for more information, and the risk factors that could cause actual results to differ.

Gary Rollins

Thank you, Julie. While we faced unprecedented obstacles this past year, I’m pleased to report that Rollins’ performance in 2020 is marked by continued growth and solid financials. Rollins’ results are a testament to the strength of our business, our exceptional focus on customer service and the commitment to program execution by our people. We are especially proud of our employees’ dedication and adaptability through this difficult year. They have continued to provide vital services to our customers through very challenging situations, enabling the continuation of our long-term success. Our people are truly our most important asset as they protect our customers’ property, health and peace of mind. We are extremely appreciative of their efforts during this unprecedented time.

At Rollins, we also have an unwavering commitment to keeping our employees safe. This has never been more important than this past year, where we faced the threat of the COVID-19 virus. New stringent safety protocols were promptly created and even today remain a priority, while we continue to have employee health risk from the virus. As a result of working safely through the pandemic, we’ve also benefited from the trust we have built with our customers. This was confirmed by the strong performance that we had in our residential services segment. Looking ahead, we remain confident in our business and the importance of the service we provided.

Before I wrap up, on behalf of the entire team at Rollins, I’d like to acknowledge and thank our two retiring directors, Jimmy Williams, he joined the Board in 1978 and Bill Dismuke, who joined the Board in 1984. Their insightful guidance and service to the company has been invaluable and we wish them well in their retirement.

Let me now turn the call over to John who will provide an overview of the quarter and the year. John?

John Wilson

Thank you, Gary. Turning to our performance, we are pleased with our fourth quarter results, which capped off a great year in 2020. Revenue for the quarter grew 6% to $536.3 million compared to $506 million for the same quarter in 2019. Net income rose to $62.6 million or $0.13 per diluted share compared to $50.8 million or $0.10 per diluted share for the fourth quarter last year. Revenue for the full year totaled $2.161 billion, an increase of 7.2% compared to $2.015 billion for 2019. Net income for the full year increased to $260.8 million or $0.53 per diluted share compared to $203.3 million or $0.41 per diluted share for the same period last year. Eddie will review the GAAP and non-GAAP results shortly as there are two adjustments impacting our financials.

Overall, our team members in the various businesses continue to perform well. We experienced strong growth in residential pest control during the fourth quarter, increasing 11%, while termite and ancillary services grew 8.7%. Year-over-year, commercial revenue was down as commercial pest control was negatively impacted by the COVID virus due to varying levels of government-driven shutdowns. However, we have continued to narrow the revenue shortfall gap each month since April with fourth quarter commercial growth only 0.6% below last year.

We are pleased with the steady progress we have achieved under these circumstances. I am very proud of our team and the commitment they show each day to take care of our customers. Their dedication and determination were very evident this year as they added many thousands of customers during a challenging time. We believe our fourth quarter and 2020 full year results reflect both the resilience of our company and our people.

I would now like to take a moment to talk about Rollins’ ESG or Environmental, Social and Governance commitment. We hold ourselves accountable to a high standard of sustainability, social responsibility and good corporate governance. ESG is not just an important part of our business it’s become part of our culture. We also have launched a new Diversity, Equity and Inclusion or DEI initiative, internally focused on advancing a culture of inclusion where all employees feel respected and treated fairly with an equitable opportunity to excel. This effort is sponsored by Freeman Elliott, our Orkin U.S. President. Freeman is working in close partnership with the newly formed Advisory Council made up of employees from across all brands to drive DEI improvements. The council is actively reviewing all policies, conducting campaign awareness, creating listening forums and providing training with much more to come. We are committed to this vision in the journey we will all take together.

I am also pleased to note that we have further strengthened our Board of Directors, adding to an already experienced and strong Board with the additions of Susan Bell, Patrick Gunning and Jerry Nix. As background, both Susan Bell and Patrick Gunning have recently retired from distinguished careers in public accounting, 36 and 39 years respectively. Both are qualified as financial experts for U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission public companies. Jerry Nix comes to our Board as the Former Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of Genuine Parts Company. They are all seasoned executives and accomplished leaders and their diverse experience will be invaluable to help shape Rollins’ future.

Now, let me turn the call over to Jerry who will provide more details on our business.

Jerry Gahlhoff

Thanks, John and good morning everybody. Although I have been with Rollins Company since 1999 and have had the opportunity over the years to interact with many of the investors on today’s call, this is my first time speaking with you as Chief Operating Officer. I do so with a strong sense of responsibility to our company, our employees, our customers and our shareholders. I am excited to be here. I would also like to thank all of our colleagues for the smooth transition over the last few months and look forward to enhancing shareholder value through the execution of our business strategy.

During the fourth quarter, we continued to expand the company’s presence, not only in the U.S., but yet globally as well. We added 10 strategic acquisitions within the United States, Canada, Australia, United Kingdom and Singapore. We are very pleased to welcome these companies and their teams to the Rollins family of brands, and as we enter 2021, we expect that strategic acquisitions will continue to be an important component in our initiatives to further grow our business. This past week, we completed our first virtual companywide leadership meeting with all our top leaders across all our global business units. While we missed being in the same room together, we still found an opportunity to gather on Zoom for productive discussions on items that will be critical for our success in 2021. As an example, one focus area we discussed that has been significant to our growth is mosquito service. This continues to be an excellent add-on service for many customers and has increased greater than 30% over the prior year. We know this will continue to be a great opportunity in 2021.

As we have discussed in the past, mosquito-borne diseases continue to be an increasing threat around the world and as family self quarantine, many are spending more time in their yards, recognizing the need for mosquito control. The overall emphasis of our leadership meeting was about executing our plans in 2021, and I have great confidence in our leadership team to make this happen.

Now, let me turn the call over to Eddie to discuss our financials.

Eddie Northen

Thank you, Jerry. The obstacles that impacted Q2 and Q3 continue to decrease throughout the quarter and our operations and non-operations groups continue to make tremendous adjustments to the new lives that we are all leading. We are utilizing mostly remote workforces, which has forced us to continue to evaluate processes and become more efficient. These changes have made us a better company. We are also thankful that we have invested in technology the way that we have over the last 4 to 5 years. Dealing with the increased demand on the residential side of our business and the disruption aroused on the commercial side of our business would have been an extreme challenge to handle without these tools in place.

For the quarter, our residential pest control and termite service lines showed growth and keys to the quarter included a fourth year in a row of metric improvement through our routing and scheduling initiatives, safety improvement that translated to expense reductions and successful continued cost containment implemented to drive margin improvement year-over-year. As John referenced, I will be reporting both GAAP financials for the quarter and GAAP and non-GAAP financials for the full year that were impacted by accelerated investing of shares in the third quarter of this year, and the impact of the pension plan moving off of our Rollins’ books in 2019.

Looking at the numbers, the fourth quarter revenues of $536.3 million was an increase of 6% over the prior year’s fourth quarter revenue of $506 million. Our income before income taxes was $86.9 million or 28.7% above 2019. Net income was $62.6 million, up 23.4% compared to 2019. Our EPS were $0.13 per diluted share. Looking at the full year, revenue of $2.161 billion was an increase of 7.2% over the prior year’s revenue of $2.015 billion. Our GAAP income before taxes was $354.7 million or 35.8% above 2019. Our net income was $260.8 million, up 28.3% compared to 2019. Our GAAP earnings per share were $0.53 per diluted share.

For the full year, looking at our non-GAAP financials, taking into account the accelerated stock vesting that occurred in the third quarter of this year and the pension plan moving off of our books in 2019, income before taxes was $361.4 million and was up 16.2% and net income was $267.5 million this year compared to $229.9 million in 2019, a 16.3% increase, and our non-GAAP EPS were $0.54 compared to $0.47, which is a 14.9% improvement.

Jerry mentioned our 2021 leadership meeting, and while our gathering online instead of in-person looked different than the previous years, our focus on messaging and alignment for the year to come continue to be the same. One of the sessions over the three days was entitled, items to make you successful in 2021. During this segment, we discussed several different topics that will impact our journey of sustainability through Environmental, Social and Governance, or ESG. The topics were all focused on actionable items that each and every operation can impact as we move forward in the new year. In depth, we discussed our routing and scheduling and how it saves miles, improves margin and helps to reduce our carbon footprint.

Next, we discussed our launch of the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion or DEI initiative that John mentioned earlier. Freeman did an excellent job sharing how a more diverse group will help lead our decision-making in the future. And then, Jerry spent time and discussed our safety journey and how this positively impacts our workforce and our financial performance. The advantage to hosting these sessions online, and yes, I am looking for silver linings here, is that we get a chance to read comments in real-time as the speaker is leading the session. There was a very positive energy around all of these topics and others that will support our sustainability for years to come.

Let’s take a look through the Rollins revenue by service line for the fourth quarter. Our total revenue increase of 6% included 1.5% from acquisitions and the remaining 4.5% was from pricing and new customer growth. In total, residential pest control, which made up 45% of our revenue, was up 11%, commercial, excluding fumigation, commercial pest control, which made up 34% of our revenue was down five-tenth of a percent and termite and ancillary services, which made up approximately 19% of our revenue, was up 8.7%. One item of note is that our wildlife service grew at their fastest rate since Q1 of 2018.

Again, total revenue less acquisition was up 4.5% and from that residential was up 9.3%, commercial ex-fumigation decreased 2.4%, and termite and ancillary grew by 8.4%. Our residential business continues to perform well and our commercial pest control business has seen steady improvement each month since April. While we continue to manage our cost appropriately, it’s difficult to know how the revenue levels will look as we move through the pandemic with restrictions continuing to change throughout the world. In total, gross margin increased to 50.3% from 49.7% in the prior year’s quarter. The quarter was positively impacted by lower service salary expense as well as lower fleet expense through continued improvements from our routing and scheduling efficiencies. These gains were offset by higher materials and supplies cost related to our personal protective equipment inventory.

Depreciation and amortization expenses for the quarter decreased $203,000 to $22.4 million, a decrease of nine-tenth of a percent. Depreciation decreased $57,000 and amortization of intangible assets decreased $148,000 as intangibles from previous acquisitions such as HomeTeam and Western became fully amortized.

Sales, general and administrative expenses for the fourth quarter increased $4.3 million or 2.8% to $159.1 million or 29.7% of revenue. This was down 2.9% compared to 2019 and the quarter produced savings in salaries and benefits and lower bad debt through better collection efforts. As for our cash position for the period-ended December 31, 2020, we spent $147.4 million on acquisitions compared to $430.6 million the same period last year, which included our initial Clark Pest Control acquisition. We paid $160.5 million on dividend and had $23.2 million of capital expenditures, which was slightly lower compared to 2019. We ended the period with $98.5 million in cash, of which $71.3 million is held by our foreign subsidiaries. These numbers all include our reduction in debt of $88.5 million for the year.

As you may remember, we kicked off the reporting of our ESG activities at the beginning of the year in 2020 with our first ever 2019 Sustainability Report. In March of 2021, we will produce our second addition, which will include more updates and goals in the areas that will impact our company over the next five years. Yesterday, the Board of Directors approved a regular cash dividend of $0.08 per share, which was a 50% increase in the pre-split numbers from last year that will be paid on March 10, 2021 to stockholders of record at the close of business February 10, 2021.

Gary, I will turn the call back over to you.

Gary Rollins

Thank you, Eddie. We are happy to take your questions at this time.