Rollins, Inc. (NYSE:ROL) Q4 2013 Earnings Call January 29, 2014 10:00 AM ET

Executives

Marilyn Meek – Investor Relations
Gary W. Rollins – Vice Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive Officer
Harry J. Cynkus – Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President & Treasurer

Analyst

Joe Box – Keybanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Sun-Il Kim – RBC Capital Markets, LLC
Dan Dolev – Jefferies, LLC.

Welcome to the Rollins fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call on the 29th of January, 2014. Throughout today’s recorded presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions. (Operator Instructions) I will now hand the conference over to Marilyn Meek.

Marilyn Meek

By now you should have all received a copy of the press release. However, if anyone is missing a copy and would like to receive one, please contact our office at 212-827-3746 and we will send you a release and make sure you’re on the company’s distribution list. There will be a replay of the call which will begin one hour after the call and run for one week. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-800-406-7325 with the passcode 4660653. Additionally, the call is being webcast at www.IFC.com and a reply will be available for 90 days.

On the line with me today is Gary Rollins, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Harry Cynkus, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Management will make some opening remarks and then we’ll open up the line for your questions. Harry, please begin.

Harry J. Cynkus

We appreciate all of you joining us on our fourth quarter and year end 2013 conference call. Let me read our forward-looking statement and disclaimer and then we’ll begin. Our earnings release discusses our business outlook and contains certain forward-looking statements. These particular forward-looking statements and all other statements that have been made on this call, excluding historical facts are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual risks may differ materially from any statement we make today.

Please refer to today’s press release and our SEC filings including the risk factors section of our Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2012 for more information and the risk factors that could cause actual results to differ.

Gary W. Rollins

As a matter of information, Atlanta is closed due to snow and Harry and I are calling in from home so we don’t have all of our notes. Nonetheless it certainly gives me a great deal of pleasure to get to be redundant this morning in reporting that we’ve again achieved record revenues and profits for both the fourth quarter and a full year 2013. This marks our 16th consecutive year of increasing revenue and profit. Please keep in mind that this has been through two recessions. This accomplishment is the result of our program execution and the Rollins’ teams’ commitment to continuous improvement in all primary areas of our business.

We saw strong demand for our services in the fourth quarter where we had double digit lead and sale growth in both commercial and residential. For the quarter revenues increased 6% to $324.7 million and net income increased 22% to $28 million. I think this makes it our highest increase in net income since the quarter in 2012.

All of our business lines experienced good growth during the quarter with residential pest control up 5.7%, commercial pest control continues to lead the pack growing 6.7%, and this makes the strongest increase that we’ve had in commercial since the second quarter of 2011. Termite continues to perform well rising 4.7%. Revenue for the full year was over $3.334 billion and net income rose 10.8% to $123.3 million.


We haven’t discussed bed bugs for a while. Although media attention has scaled back, the fact is that bed bugs have not gone away and our bed bug business continues to grow. In the fourth quarter revenues were over $14 million, almost close to 33% increase over last. For the full year, this business grew over 21% to more than $50 million. We continue to look at new products and technologies for bed bug treatment and identification. However, today no one has found a silver bullet.

Home teams’ tubes in the wall pest prevention installation remains strong having risen 23% in the quarter. The total installs for the full year rising almost 36% to approximately $85,200. Over the last two years home team has installed over 143,000 tubes in the wall systems. The investment that we’ve made in these new home installations position home team for a stream of recurring revenue as long as long term profitability when these homes are sold and home owners activate their systems.

We do not expect the same rate of growth for installations in 2014. Based on recent home building forecasts for the year, it indicates and anticipated slowing of new home construction. Having said that, Metro Studies Home Building 2014 outlook ranked the 100 largest new home markets. Home team and its field of partners are in 17 of the top 20 markets. This should be beneficial to us even if the industry overall proves to be less than robust than last year.

We’re especially pleased that our customer satisfaction scores improved again this past year confirming that our programs in this area are paying off. Our net promoter results improved over 2012 among survey customers that say they’re extremely likely or very likely to recommend our services. Not unexpectedly, we also experienced a drop in unsatisfied customers. While we were happy to see an improvement in these results, we are well aware that today’s consumers have high expectations as they keep raising the bar and so must we.

As I’ve said before, we don’t spend much time looking in the rear view mirror but rather a focus on where we need to be and that is always improving our service to our customers. These surveys will continue to be a major confirmation for all brands to measure our progress in this area. We continue to expand our marketing and rebranding initiatives that we refer to, this campaign is taking pest control down to a science.

As an element of this initiative in the fourth quarter, Orkin introduced our new commercial service program that we market as precision protection. This program is directed primarily to the food processing hospitality, restaurant, and healthcare industries. This commercial branding ties with our pest control down to the science theme and helps us differentiate Orkin from the competition through more concise and more scientific treatments.

As the industry leader we have the advantage of seeking the leading edge of new technology. Last year was no exception. In fact, many of our technological initiatives have had a significant impact on the success we achieved including our introduction of our home suite and biz suite of iPad applications which are enabling our residential and commercial sales inspectors to better describe the need for our services and describe the services that we will be delivering specific to their home or business all of which improve our closure and sales.

We’re also making progress with our CRM branch administrative operating system. The testing they were conducting in a number of different business environments is going well and we remain encouraged by what we’ve seen. You may recall earlier this year that we brought on a senior level director with substantial CRM system development and implementation experience. He’s been a wonderful addition to our project team and the impact has been noteworthy.

When completed this operating system will be interfacing with virtually every system in our organization from payroll, to human resources, to our fleet system, general ledger, and so forth. Admittedly this endeavor has taken longer than we would have liked but we believe once fully implemented this service suite will be a real game changer for our company. As a reminder, all of our pest control companies will ultimately be on this operating system with slight modification to address specific brand differences.

We’re fortunate to have some of the best people in the industry as part of our Rollins team, so it came as no surprise when Greg Baumann, Vice President of Training and Technical Service was inducted into pest management professionals’ hall of fame class of 2013. The hall of fame was established in 1997 and recognizes those who have led and continue to lead the pest industry management to new heights. Congratulations Greg, and thanks for all you do for the company.

We continue to build on our international franchise portfolio having added four franchises to our roster last year: one in the Middle East; and three in the Caribbean, for a total of 26 international franchises in nine regions of the world. We’ve now taken an even bigger step internationally. I hope all of you had an opportunity to see our press release last week announcing that we have signed a definite purchase agreement to acquire All Pest in Western Australia.

I’d like to take a minute to provide you with a little background on All Pest and why we’re excited to have them join our family of brands. This strategic acquisition provides us with a platform to enter an important international market that has a stable government. Also, they have the same language and a comparable culture. All Pest is headquartered in Perth with operations throughout Western Australia.

When Greg Mills acquired the company in 1998 there were only four employees and since that time he and his team have built the business significantly. Today they have over 170 employees, and last year All Pest had revenues of approximately $25 million US while generating considerable profit and cash flow. This company has a strong presence in the western region with a 25% market share there.

We will enjoy plenty of opportunity to provide pest control services primarily to four sectors, the largest of which is oil and gas followed by commercial, residential, and fumigation. It’s noteworthy that All Pest is highly respected in their industry earning pest manager of the year for 2012 and ’13 by the Association of the Australian Professional Pest Management Industry for Western Australia. We’re looking forward to working with Greg and his team.

Pricing has always been one of the key factors in our business and we continue to seek ways to improve this important facet. We are currently in the process of rolling out a new residential pest control rate card with a zip plus four application that will help us better ensure that we are pricing our new residential sales more effectively. Additionally, we continue to refine our sophisticated iPad initial pricing application for our commercial account managers.

Initial pricing and existing price increases are so important that we have now put in place our own analytics pricing team. Going forward, they will lead our effort for pricing across all brands as well as help us to gain greater leverage from our customer data and improve our ability to make better fact based decisions.

While we’re pleased with what we accomplished last year and we know we have many opportunities to improve our business in the future. Bugs are not going to go away and we have a premium brand that is recognized around the world plus other specialty brands that are well known in their markets. We will continue to look for better ways to do what we do in providing our customers with premier services that addresses their pest control requirements.

We’re energized and excited about these opportunities and look forward to another successful year. I’ll now turn the call over to you, Harry.

Harry J. Cynkus

Thank you all for joining us on the call. I think it was Zig Ziglar who said, “It’s not where you start it’s where you finish that counts.” This year in the first quarter we didn’t get off the start line very quickly, but the victor in the race is not the one who necessarily starts off the fastest, but the one who leads at the finish. The stickler outlasts the sprinter in life’s race. We never lost sight of our goals for the year and it’s with great pleasure, put another record year in the book.

Let’s talk about the quarter’s performance. Today, we reported revenues of $324.7 million representing 6% revenue growth. Net income increased 22% to $28 million or $0.19 per diluted share compared to $22.9 million or $0.16 per diluted share for the same period in 2012. Year-to-date revenue is $1,337,000,000 a 5.2% increase. Net income for the full year has increased 10.8%, another year of growing net income at 10% to $123.3 million or $0.84 per diluted share with EBITDA coming in at $231 million.

Our guidance for next year, which shouldn’t be a surprise, we can do better and we’re planning on it. Let’s talk about revenue. Harry has already shared with you that we saw strong demand for our services in the fourth quarter and it was strong right through the end of December. With the one exception of Waltham located in the Northeast, we saw revenue across all brands, all service lines, and possibly all bug groups. Well, certainly bed bugs.

[Inaudible] that drive our revenues: lead; pricing; closure; and retention remain strong and improved in the quarter. Last year at this time I said with 42% of our revenues being commercial pest control it’s good to see it regaining its momentum. All it has done this year has continued to gain momentum. This past quarter it grew 6.7% not impacted by our fumigation this quarter as fumigation was up 7.5%. However, it was impacted somewhat by the weakening Canadian dollar. If you look at just our domestic commercial pest control service it was up 8.1%. Now that’s momentum.

Our residential pest control continues to shine growing 5.7% for the quarter representing 41% of our business. The beauty of our business model is recurring revenues, combine that with growth in your customer base waiting for their services next year, and we feel pretty good going into next year. We don’t lose any sleep like the retailers of the world worrying about getting business to walk back in the door. The fourth quarter is not a big lead quarter, but 10% lead growth is sweet.

Harry has already touched on our improving customer satisfaction scores which translate into improved retention rates not just for our residential pest control but across all service lines. Our terminate and ancillary services grew 4.7% for the quarter and represents almost 17% of revenues. While seasonally influenced, half of this revenue is recurring in nature coming from year round monitoring and through annual renewal fees recognized ratably over the course a year.

The fourth quarter ended strong. In fact, it may have been the strongest organic growth quarter for this service line ever. Well, at least since 2005 which is as far back as I bothered to look. Thanks need to be spread around. Hats off to these additional sales being driven by our termite sales people armed with our state-of-the-art iPad app and home team enjoying the growth in the new home construction market.

To add to Gary’s comments on bedbugs, I would like to point out to those who might have missed Orkin’s press release earlier this month when we announced Chicago hit our top 50 bedbug cities list for the second year in a row. The Windy City’s bedbug program was serious enough that the city council passed an ordinance in July requiring condo associations to have a formal management plan in place for the detection, inspection, and treatment of these pests.

In the South, two major cities had the biggest jumps on the list from 2012 to 2013. Nashville moved up 17 spots while Charlotte climbed 18 spots. Many of you on this call this morning are in New York City. I guess you shouldn’t take too much solace that your city fell out of the top 10 and I think our bedbug business still had nice growth in your area just not as fast as some other cities.

Gross margin for the quarter improved 170 basis points to 48.5% for the fourth quarter versus 46.8% in the prior year. There was a number of factors impacting margin. On the favorable side we enjoyed continued positive claim development with regard to terminate costs, improved trends with casualty claims as well as medical costs, all helped margins 110 basis points. Improved productivity contributed nearly 40 basis points but we had a 20 basis point improve from gains from vehicle disposition.

The margins were unfavorably impacted by nearly 30 basis points due to increase in the material and supply costs. This was related to both the substantial increase in tubes in the wall installs up 23% and that was on top of the 55% they saw last year in the fourth quarter, as well as increases in ancillary sales which also impacted material and supply costs. So really, the impact in material and supply is more mixed than it is any increase per cost on a per items basis.

As Gary mentioned home team tubes in the wall increased 23% for the quarter with total installs up nearly 4,000. While it’s a long term positive note, it cost us an incremental $400,000 over the fourth quarter last year. Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was flat, decreasing as a percentage of revenues 2/10ths of a percent to 3%. For the year depreciation was $14.4 million with capital expenditures totaling $18.6 million. The larger piece of depreciation and amortization is the amortization of acquired customer contracts totaling $6.5 million for the quarter and $25.2 million for the full year. This represents a significant non-cash after tax charge of $0.11 this year.

When we acquire a pest control company there is seldom any significant hard assets on the balance sheet and as a result most of the valuation ends up being classified as intangibles and customer contracts. We currently have nearly $130 million of intangibles from acquisitions on our balance sheet. With current amortization running approximately $25 million a year, we will continue to have this expense flowing through the P&L for some time. We see little risk in possible impairment charges.

All of the businesses we have acquired have grown. As we continue to write down the value of the customer contracts recognized at the time of the acquisition. We immediately expense all cost related to organic acquisition of new customers. Sales, general and administrative expenses increased $8.8 million or 9.1% to 32.8% of revenues increasing from 31.9% of revenue. The increases in cost as a percentage of revenues was due to the higher advertising expense related to our new advertising campaign along with higher sales expense. You have to pay for all that new revenue. This combined accounted for 80 basis points.

In addition, we had an increase in professional services related to both our commercial pricing initiative and our Australian acquisition effort adding almost another 40 basis points. It is expensive doing an acquisition half way around the world. Between the valuation people, the lawyers, the accountants, the due diligence teams and other expenses, it impacted the quarter results in excess of $700,000. I have assured you Gary that my airline tickets and bar tab was a very small part of that total.

Tax rates in the quarter came in at 32.1%. We were able to utilize some hiring incentives restore employment hire credits relating to 2010 hires that obviously took some time to determine their eligibility and also a one-time deferred tax liability reconciliation related to book and tax differences on depreciable assets and disposal. The year-to-date provision for income taxes came in at 35.6%. I really don’t see anyone coming to their senses in Washington any time soon and regrettably expect the rate to turn back up next year to 37.5%, though we’re always looking for credits and opportunities.

We continue to build on our solid operating and financial foundation. Possessing a growing balance sheet and cash flows, Rollins continues to be financially strong. EBITDA reached $231 million with strong operating cash flow of $163 million last year. Not being a capital intensive business, we only spent $19 million on capital expenditures. Our number one priority for our cash continues to be reinvesting in the business we know best; pest control and only pest control.

Unfortunately, it was a disappointing year for opportunities and we didn’t spend as much on acquisitions as previous years. That left us plenty of money to return to shareholders as we paid nearly $66 million in dividends including a special dividend at the end of the year and as a result our shareholders enjoyed five dividends, in effect, this year. We also spent a little over $8 million on stock buyback. Do the math, we added considerably to our cash position ending the year with $118 million in cash.

After last quarter one analyst wrote, “A solid quarter but what to do with all that cash?” Well, now you know where some will go. We will be closing in February on our first transaction in Australia. We are excited about the business prospects and future and further opportunities down under. To help us accelerate our acquisition pace, last quarter we brought on board a new experienced director of acquisitions who has more than 20 years’ experience in M&A and he is well into building a pipeline of prospects.

I would be remiss not to mention that yesterday our board of directors increased the quarterly dividend 16.6% to $0.105 per share each quarter. This marks now the 12th consecutive year that the dividend has been increased a minimum of 12%. Lastly and most importantly, let me express our appreciation for a job well down to all the Rollins associates whose hard work and dedication are behind these outstanding results. With that now, I’ll turn the call back over to Gary.

Gary W. Rollins

We’re now ready to open the call for any questions you might have.