Rollins, Inc. (NYSE:ROL) Q4 2024 Earnings Conference Call February 13, 2025 8:30 AM ET

Company Participants

Lyndsey Burton - Vice President, Investor Relations
Jerry Gahlhoff - Chief Executive Officer and President
Kenneth Krause - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Tim Mulrooney - William Blair
George Tong - Goldman Sachs
Ronan Kennedy - Barclays
Ashish Sabadra - RBC Capital
Jason Haas - Wells Fargo
Aadit Shrestha - Stifel
Karan Singhania - UBS
Peter Sullvian - Jefferies

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Rollins Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce Lyndsey Burton, Vice President of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Lyndsey Burton

Thank you. In addition to the earnings release that we issued yesterday, the company has also prepared a supporting slide presentation. The earnings release and presentation are available on our website at www.rollins.com. We have included certain non-GAAP financial measures as part of our discussion this morning. The non-GAAP reconciliations are available in the appendix of today's presentation as well as in our earnings release.

The company's earnings release discusses the business outlook and contains certain forward-looking statements. These particular forward-looking statements and all other statements that have been made on this call, excluding historical facts, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from any statement we make today.

Please refer to yesterday's press release and the company's SEC filings, including the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, which will be filed later today.

On the line with me today speaking are Jerry Gahlhoff, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ken Krause, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Management will make some opening remarks, and then we'll open the line for your questions.

Jerry, would you like to begin?

Jerry Gahlhoff

Thank you, Lyndsey. Good morning, everyone.

Fiscal 2024 was another solid year for Rollins as we achieved a milestone of $3.4 billion in revenue. Our business remains healthy on all fronts as demand remains strong throughout the year across all major service offerings. As full year revenue increased 10.3% versus last year, we grew earnings by 7.9% and adjusted earnings per share by 11.2%.

Organic growth for the year of 7.9% was bolstered by strong execution of our operating strategies and continued investment in people and staffing to meet the continued demand in our markets.

We strategically allocated resources to the commercial side of our business as we opened a dedicated commercial division within Orkin. Through this focus, we grew our sales force by more than 15% in the last year and invested in support training and tools to help new sales professionals get up to speed quickly and effectively.

As Ken will discuss, these investments to support long-term growth objectives did temper incremental margins have been in the second half of the year. But we are confident in our ability to yield a strong return on these investments as we head into 2025.

Our service quality is high. Our offerings are customized, and we believe that we are well positioned to capitalize on growth opportunities within a multibillion-dollar B2B market. Investments to drive organic growth are complemented by strategic M&A. And in 2024, we closed 44 tuck-in deals. We have a robust M&A pipeline with a number of opportunities that we are actively evaluating to drive additional growth.

Operationally, we remain committed to hiring and developing top talent. The hiring environment was healthy in 2024 as we put significant energy into onboarding the right people in both support functions as well as the customer-facing side of our business. Effective sales and service staffing levels helped us capitalize on continued demand and deliver solid results for the year.

We're proud of the tenure and experience of our team, as well as their engagement level and commitment to both our company and our customers. While overall teammate retention has been consistently healthy, there is opportunity for improved retention of our newer team mates, specifically, those who are with us for six months or less.

We made positive strides in this area throughout 2024 by updating our training and onboarding programs to better address key milestones in the early days that a new team member is with us. Another important part of our culture is our dedication to continuous improvement and our focus on safety is a key element of this. There's nothing more important than ensuring our teammates to make it home safely at the end of the day. And in 2024, we implemented several new programs to continue building our safety culture here at Rollins.

Our newly revamped onboarding program also includes enhanced safety training intended to equip our drivers with the technical skills, awareness and courtesy needed to uphold the driver safety standards we expect. While we are proud of the progress we have made, there is a long tail associated with safety claims that we continue to work through.

This is evidenced by our insurance and claims experience in the fourth quarter, which Ken will discuss in more detail. Improving a safety culture isn't something that's done overnight, but we are committed to reducing our claims pipeline over time through ongoing safety efforts.

As we look ahead to 2025, we're encouraged by the opportunities that are in front of us across all aspects of our business. Momentum is strong as we finished 2024 with the highest quarterly organic growth rate that we saw all year. Our residential business also had its best quarter of the year, growing 6.5% organically.

We have meaningfully grown our commercial sales force under the banner of a new work and commercial division to better align the management of these resources and drive results. Our modernization efforts are progressing well but we are still early in our journey and see a multitude of areas to drive incremental change.

As Ken will discuss, Fitch and S&P have recently announced investment-grade corporate credit ratings for our company that will provide us with another important access point to the capital markets as we execute our growth strategy. Most importantly, we remain committed to providing our customers with the best customer experience and investing meaningfully in our team to drive growth, both organically as well as through disciplined acquisitions.

We are pleased with where our business stands today and what lies ahead of us in 2025. And I want to thank each of our 20,000-plus teammates around the world for their efforts and contribution to our success in 2024.

I'll now turn the call over to Ken. Ken?

Kenneth Krause

Thanks, Jerry, and good morning, everyone.

Our results for the quarter and the year reflect continued strong execution by the Rollins team, and let me begin with a few highlights for 2024. First, we delivered robust revenue growth of 10.3% for the year with a strong growth across each of our service offerings. It was encouraging to see organic growth of 7.9% for the year, while acquisitions continue to be a meaningful part of our growth profile.

Second, we made progress on profitability improvement in 2024 while also making significant long-term investments to support the business. The pricing environment remains healthy, and we continue to focus on investing in future growth while delivering margin improvement.

Growth investments and pressure from developments on legacy auto claims that materialized in December, both weighed on incremental margins for the quarter and the year. When you isolate the impact of these two factors, the incremental margin that was generated by our underlying operations for the year is solidly in the 30% range.

And finally, we delivered operating cash flow of $608 million and free cash flow of $580 million, up 15% and 17%, respectively, versus last year. Our strong cash flow performance enabled us to execute a balanced capital allocation strategy deploying almost $500 million of capital in 2024 with a focus on investing for growth while returning cash to shareholders through a growing dividend.

Turning to our fourth quarter performance. The team delivered a strong quarter with revenue up 10.4% and our strongest organic growth rate of the year at 8.5%. It was certainly encouraging to see the strong improvement in organic revenue growth in the second half of the year.

In the fourth quarter, residential revenue increased 8.4%, commercial pest control increased 9.2% and termite and ancillary related services was up 16.6%. Organic growth was healthy across the portfolio, with growth of 6.5% in residential, 7.2% in commercial and 14.9% in termite and ancillary. Our demand creation efforts and investments in customer-facing resources are paying off with stronger organic growth in our portfolio.

Gross margin improved 40 basis points to 51.3% in the quarter, and looking at our four major buckets of service costs, people, fleet, materials and supplies as well as insurance and claims, we saw improvements in margins associated with materials and supplies as well as people costs despite healthy staffing levels needed to support strong underlying demand trends. Fleet was neutral to margins in the quarter, while insurance and claims were a headwind driven by developments on legacy auto claims that we previously mentioned.

Quarterly SG&A costs as a percentage of revenue increased by 50 basis points versus last year. We continue to see leverage in administrative people costs, which somewhat offset deleverage from selling and marketing expenses associated with growth initiatives.

Unpacking this further, we have consistently talked about our intent to reinvest savings from administrative costs in the sales and marketing initiatives. And since the end of 2022, we have seen 50 basis points of leverage in administrative employees expenses and have invested that back into selling and marketing expenses. Going forward, we do see an opportunity to continue to leverage our administrative costs to drive further investment as well as margin expansion.

Fourth quarter GAAP operating income was $151 million, up 8.3% year-over-year, and adjusted operating income was $155 million, up 7.3% versus last year. Quarterly adjusted EBITDA was $181 million and EBITDA margin was 21.8%. While we saw nice leverage with respect to gross profit, EBITDA margins were negatively impacted by growth investments, and our claims experience in the quarter. The effective tax rate was 27.3% for the quarter and 26% for the full year.

For 2025, we are expecting an effective tax rate of approximately 26%. Quarterly GAAP net income was $106 million or $0.22 per share. For the fourth quarter, we had non-GAAP pretax adjustments associated with Fox acquisition-related items totaling approximately $4 million of pretax expense in the quarter. Considering these adjustments, adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was $109 million or $0.23 per share, increasing just under 10% from the same period a year ago.

Turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. Operating cash flow increased 23% in the quarter to $188 million. Cash flow did benefit from a disaster relief measure granted to those with operations impacted by Hurricane Helene that allowed us to defer an estimated $32 million fourth quarter tax payment. This payment would have occurred in Q4 and will now be paid in the second quarter of 2025.

Cash flow conversion, a percent of income that was converted into operating cash was approximately 144% for the quarter, adjusting for the positive impact of the deferred tax payment. We generated $184 million of free cash flow and $106 million of earnings, a 30% increase versus last year.

As Jerry mentioned, I wanted to take a moment to highlight the assignment of investment-grade corporate credit ratings from Fitch and S&P. The agencies have announced public credit ratings for the company with Fitch issuing a BBB+ rating and S&P a BBB rating. Today, we are also announcing that our Board has approved a $1 billion commercial paper program backstopped by our existing $1 billion revolving credit facility. We will start to work to put this in place in the coming weeks, helping provide flexibility and more efficient shorter-term liquidity options.

We have made considerable progress in modernizing our back office and capital structure over the last several years. A key goal of this effort has been to ensure access to the most efficient capital to further enable our balanced and disciplined approach to capital allocation. One of our top priorities has been to achieve investment-grade ratings. These ratings represent a big step forward, ensuring our ability to grow using the most cost-efficient capital.

We've also recently welcomed Brady Knudsen as our new Treasurer. Brady has been working alongside many of our team members and helping guide us through the ratings process. It is great to have Brady on the team. Throughout our history, we have managed this business through an investment-grade lens, and we will continue to do so in the future. We are committed to maintaining a strong investment-grade rating with leverage well under 2x supported by healthy cash flow generation and disciplined capital allocation.

Going forward, we have updated our definition of leverage to better align with the rating agencies, which results in a more conservative view. A reconciliation can be found in our press release, but using this definition of our leverage, our leverage calculation currently stands at 0.8x.

As we look to 2025, we remain encouraged by the strength of our markets and the execution by our teams. We are focused on delivering another year of robust growth and healthy incremental margins, further complemented by a strategic and disciplined approach to M&A.

We continue to expect organic growth in the range of 7% to 8% with additional growth from M&A of at least 2% to 3%. Additionally, we are focused on improving our incremental margin profile while investing in growth opportunities. We anticipate that cash flow will continue to convert at a rate that is above 100% again in 2025.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Jerry.

Jerry Gahlhoff

Thank you, everyone. We're happy to take any questions you have at this time.