Rollins Inc. (NYSE:ROL) Q4 2018 Earnings Conference Call January 23, 2019 10:00 AM ET

Company Participants

Marilyn Meek - IR
Gary Rollins - CEO
John Wilson - President & COO
Eddie Northen - SVP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Dan Dolev - Nomura
Jamie Clement - Buckingham Asset Management
Tim Mulrooney - William Blair
Chris McGinnis - Sidoti & Company
Michael Hoffman - Stifel

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Rollins Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call.

Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]

I'd now like to introduce your host for today's call, Marilyn Meek. Ms. Meek, you may begin.

Marilyn Meek

Thank you. By now, you should have all received a copy of the press release. However, if anyone is missing a copy and would like to receive one, please contact our office at 212-827-3746, and we will send you a release and make sure you are on the company's distribution list. There will be a replay of the call, which will begin one hour after the call and run for one week. The replay can be accessed by dialing 1-888-203-1112 with the pass code 7939620.

Additionally, the call is being webcast at www.viavid.com and a replay will be available for 90 days. On the line with me today and presenting are Gary Rollins, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Wilson, Rollins' President and Chief Operating Officer; and Eddie Northen, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Management will make some opening remarks and then we'll open the line for your questions.

Gary, would you like to begin?

Gary Rollins

Yes, Marilyn. Thank you and good morning. We appreciate all of you joining us for our fourth quarter and yearend 2019 conference call. Eddie will read our forward looking statement and disclaimer and then we'll begin.

Eddie Northen

Our conference call discusses our business outlook and contains certain forward-looking statements. These particular forward-looking statements and all other statements that have been made on this call, excluding historical facts, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual risks may differ materially from any statement we make today.

This conference call also includes certain non-GAAP financial measures and performance. These non-GAAP measures should be used as a supplement and not a substitute for net income loss computed in accordance with GAAP. Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filing, including the Risk Factors section of our Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for more information and the risk factors that could cause actual results to differ.

Gary Rollins

Thank you, Eddie. We're pleased to report our 51st consecutive quarter of improved revenue and earnings. Revenues for the quarter grew 7.2% to $444.6 million compared to $414.7 million for the fourth quarter last year.

Net income increased 51.1% to $51 million or $0.16 per diluted share compared to $33.7 million or $0.10 per diluted share for the same quarter of 2017. Revenues for the full year rose 8.8% to $1.822 billion compared to $1.674 billion for the same period last year.

Net income increased 29.3% to approximately $231.7 million with earnings per diluted share of $0.71 compared to net income of $179.1 million, or $0.55 per diluted share for the full year 2017.

We experienced good growth in all of our service lines for the quarter with residential up 7.8%, commercial pest control rose 5.9% and termite and ancillary rose 8.2%. 2018 was a good year for Rollins as we continue to build our global presence through acquisitions, both domestically and overseas. In the U.K. we expanded our footprint with the acquisition three fine companies, Guardian Pest Control, Ames Group and Kestrel Pest Control.

We also achieved an important milestone for the company, when we acquired Aardwolf Pestkare. This is Rollins' first company-owned operation in Singapore.

In the U.S. we acquired OPC Pest Control, the premier pest control company in Kentucky and we also made small tuck-in acquisitions and year-end we had added a total of 38 companies to our roster. We also continue to expand the Orkin brand internationally with the addition of franchises in South America, Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and other locations. The Orkin brand is now represented at 57 countries throughout 86 international franchises.

As we enter 2019, strategic acquisition remain a focus of our growth strategy. We're extremely pleased to have announced earlier this month, our agreement to acquire Clark Pest Control, headquartered in Lodi, California, Clark has operations in over 20 locations in California and Nevada.

Founded by Charlie Clark in 1950, the company has grown to be eighth largest pest control provider in the U.S. Clark recorded revenues of $130 million in 2017. The company is also growing at a faster rate than we are as well as a faster rate than the overall pest control industry.

I first visited with the company over 20 years ago when I was fortunate enough to meet Charlie Clark, an icon in our industry. We admired the company throughout all this time. The Clark acquisition will be the largest in our company's history. John will provide more details on this acquisition, but I wanted to express our enthusiasm in acquiring this fine company and personally welcome their team to the Rollins family.

I'd now like to turn the call over to John.

John Wilson

Thank you, Gary. As Gary noted, we're very pleased to have Clark Pest Control join our family. The Clark team is a natural fit for Rollins, sharing the same values that we do. More on that later.

They service customers through more than 20 branch locations in Northern and Southern California and Nevada. Clark Pest Control is stronger in the upper central valley in Northern California areas than Orkin and our other brands.

It was very interesting to learn during our due diligence process how closely linked Clark and our biggest brand, Orkin are in their history. As you may know, Orkin was founded by Otto Orkin in 1901, but didn't expand to the West Coast prior to the Rollins purchase in 1964.

Meanwhile Charlie Clark founded Clark Pest Control in California in 1950 and patterned Clark on some of the foundational principles of quality customer service, delivered by well-trained people just as Otto Orkin did. Both companies have certainly retained those principles of quality service, delivered by well-trained team members today.

Clark has long been recognized as a premier pest control company in residential, commercial and termite services in the markets it serves. Their strong culture of customer service has been aided by very high employee retention rates and has resulted in a loyal and expanding customer base.

We are aware that owners have a choice when they look to sell their business and there are four very important factors that come into play. What is best for their family, their employees and their customers, as well as receiving value for their company. We take each of those into account and customize our acquisition plan to fit those factors.

What was apparent in our discussions with Clark from the beginning is how deeply they care about what would happen to their employees and customers following the sale. They, like us, recognize how important their people are to their success and also like us are dedicated to continually improving both the employee and the customer experience.

Over time, we have distinguished ourselves with our acquisitions where team management and employees remain all in active work and it is one reason why Rollins has gained the reputation of being the industry's acquirer of choice. Sellers know they can trust us to live up to our word once we have closed on a purchase. We even invite potential parties to reach out to the brands we have acquired as well as the ones we have lost out on to see if they're happy or not.

In addition to Clark Pest Control expanding our presence in California and Nevada, we believe the company provides significant opportunities for Rollins and Clark to learn from each other, which we have repeatedly expressed as one of our primary objectives with our acquisition.

Potential opportunities we have encountered previously include materials and suppliers purchasing that are vehicle leasing arrangements, training, employee benefit and lower technology and communication expenses to name a few. Rollins will fund the acquisition using a combination of cash and debt. Eddie will go into further financial details related to this acquisition in a few minutes.

Clark Pest Control under the leadership of long-term Clark team member, Robert Baker, who will join our Specialty Brands group, led by Jerry Gahlhoff. Brands in this group include HomeTeam, Western, Waltham, Northwest Exterminating and OPC Services.

Jerry and I have had the privilege of visiting every Clark operations to meet with their employees and personally welcome them to Rollin. We wanted them to know that they are valued and how much we look forward to working with them to further advance their great brand.

I'll now turn the call back over to Eddie.

Eddie Northen

Thank you, John. Before I get into our quarterly and yearend numbers, I want to reiterate the positive impact of our enhanced employee benefit. Our people are so pleased with the investment that we made in 2018 and looking back this was absolutely the right decision and has been reinforced by the positive result that they have produced for the year.

As you may recall in April, we increased our 401(k) match and provided stock grants to our employees, which added about $10 million to our expense for the year, but this recognition of their impact on our business is rippling through our results.

A recent leadership meeting in Atlanta was the first that we have had -- first that we held since rolling this announcement out last April. The comments of many of the over 100 participants were overwhelmingly positive and appreciative.

I want to share a few of the positive changes that we have seen. All employees want to work for an employer of choice. Our employee retention rate has the best year-over-year improvement in the fourth quarter in 2018 since 2016.

As you know, during that same time period, the unemployment rate has fallen from 4.7% down to 3.9% in December of 2018. Investing in our people is one of the components that has helped us in this area.

We've also often talked about how important our technicians are in their relationship with our customers. Our improved employee retention has translated directly to higher customer retention in Q4 and for all of 2018.

Our organic growth rates, again, ticked to historic highs as a result of better technician and customer retention. Enhancing our employee benefits will continue to drive improvements in employee and customer retention for years to come.

For the quarter, all of our service lines showed significant growth, and keys to the quarter included record organic growth rates, piloting testing of the BOSS rollout in Canada, and as I just mentioned, improvements in our employee retention rate tied to our enhanced employee benefits.

Looking at the numbers, the fourth quarter revenues of $444.6 million was an increase of 7.2% over the prior year's fourth quarter revenue of $414.7 million. Income before income taxes increased 4.3% to $71.5 million from $68.5 million in 2017.

Expense and depreciation increased during the quarter as we continued to roll out and began testing BOSS in Canada. Net income rose 51.1% to $51 million, and EPS increased 60% to $0.16 per diluted share compared to $0.10 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2017.

EBITDA was $87.8 million, up 5.1% over Q4 of 2017. As we move forward, we will speak more to EBITDA as we continue to make sizable acquisitions that will impact our depreciation and amortization.

For the 12 months that ended December 31, we produced record revenues of $1.822 billion, which was an increase of 8.8% over the same time period last year. Income before income taxes increased 5.5% to $310.7 million, and net income rose 29.3% to $231.7 million compared to 2017.

EPS increased 29.1% to $0.71 per share compared to $0.55 per share in 2017. EBITDA was $377.3 million in 2018 compared to $350.8 million in 2017, up 7.5%.

Our financial health enables us to be -- I'm sorry, enables us to continue to be nimble and improve our business. Companies that did not anticipate change and take advantage of market opportunities and seek ways to make it easier for your customers to do business with you do not drive, and in some cases, do not survive.

The past 50 years have shown that Rollins has successfully managed for the long-term, and the impending acquisition of Clark Pest Control is a great example of that.

John gave some good color on the Clark's impending purchase based on his time working on this acquisition and spending a lot of time visiting their employees. But let's shift our attention to what we know about the financial impact of the impending acquisition of Clark Pest Control. We anticipate closing sometime in Q1 of 2019, subject to obtaining regulatory clearance.

For all of you that have asked would we be willing to leverage our balance sheet, this is your deal. While we plan to use cash for a portion of the purchase, we will be taking on debt in the form of a term loan tied to LIBOR to supplement the rest. This deal makes taking on debt worthwhile for us, and again, is investing in our future for decades to come.

The company is very profitable, but with the goodwill amortization, Clark will not add to EPS in year 1 but will be generating significant additional cash flow. Once we close on the deal, we will share more related to the anticipated impact of this acquisition on our total Rollins results moving forward.

Let's take a look through the Rollins revenue by service line for the fourth quarter. As discussed earlier, our total revenue increased 7.2% and included 1.6% from several acquisitions, and the remaining 5.6% was from pricing and organic growth. In total, residential pest control, which made up 42% of our revenue, was up 7.8%.

Commercial pest control, which made up 39% of our revenue, was up 5.9%. And termite and ancillary services, which made up approximately 18% of our revenue, was up 8.2%. Both residential and termite benefit from our OPC acquisition. Again, total revenue less acquisitions was up 5.6%, and from that, residential was up 6.8%, commercial increased 3.2%, and termite improved by 7.5%.

Back to my earlier point on employee and customer retention, for the full year, total organic revenue grew 5.3% and is the fastest organic growth rate in over 5 years. When you take a look at the quarter, taking out the impact of foreign companies and currency, in total, we grew 7.1%, residential grew 8%, commercial pest control was up 5%, and termite improved 8.5%.

In total, gross margin for the quarter was 50.2%, up slightly from 50% prior year's quarter. The quarter benefited from improved efficiency and routing and scheduling, even as we have last efforts that began 18 months ago. Average miles driven per vehicle in our Orkin fleet were down an additional 2.6% year-over-year.

Fleet expenses increased $3 million or 13.6% for the quarter, driven by moderated but still higher price per gallon costs and increased leased vehicle expense. Personnel-related costs were up due to the 401(k) plan company match and onetime employee stock grants.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the fourth quarter increased $1.7 million to $16.6 million, an increase of 11.3%. Depreciation increased $790,000 due to acquisitions, equipment purchases and continued BOSS rollout. While amortization of intangible assets increased $900,000 due to amortization of customer contracts included in several acquisitions.

Sales, general and administrative expense for the fourth quarter increased $12.1 million or 9.8% to $135.8 million or 30.5% of revenues, up 0.7% from $123.7 million or 29.8% of revenues for the fourth quarter 2017.

The increase in the percent of revenue is primarily driven to higher sales salaries of $3.1 million due to higher sales commissions, which is tied to our record organic growth rate; $3 million additional expense in administrative salaries, attributable to amortization of restricted stock grants and expense associated with acquisitions; personnel-related increase of $1.9 million from the enhanced 401(k) benefits. In Q4, we saw an increase in the 401(k) match as more employees benefited from these enhancements.

The full year SG&A number increased 9.4% and came in at 30.2% of revenue compared to 30.1% of revenue in 2017. As for our cash position for the period ended December 31, 2018, we spent $76.7 million on acquisitions compared to $130.2 million the same period last year, which included Northwest Exterminating, and as we continued to find good quality pest control companies and continue to buy back Critter Control franchises.

We paid $152.7 million on dividends, which included a special dividend for the seventh consecutive year, which was an increase of 25.2%. We have $27.1 million of capital expenditures, which was up 9.7% from 2017, primarily from planned IT upgrades, such as our BOSS Canada rollout and the Northwest acquisition.

We ended the period with $115.5 million in cash, of which $53.6 million is held by our foreign subsidiaries. Yesterday, the Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of $0.105 per share that will be paid on March 11, 2019, to stockholders of record at the close of business February 11, 2019.

The cash dividend is a 12.5% increase over the prior year. This marks the 17th consecutive year the board has increased our dividend by a minimum of 12%.

Gary, I'll turn the call back over to you.

Gary Rollins

We're happy to take your questions at this time.