Alcoa Corporation (AA) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Louis Langlois - Senior Vice President of Treasury & Capital Markets
William Oplinger - President, CEO & Director
Molly Beerman - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Nick Giles - B. Riley Securities, Inc., Research Division
Carlos de Alba - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Katja Jancic - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Glyn Lawcock - Barrenjoey Markets Pty Limited, Research Division
Lawson Winder - BofA Securities, Research Division
Timna Tanners - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Lachlan Shaw - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
William Peterson - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
John Tumazos - John Tumazos Very Independent Research, LLC
Daniel Major - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon. and welcome to the Alcoa Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Presentation and Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Louis Langlois, Senior Vice President of Treasury and Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Louis Langlois
Senior Vice President of Treasury & Capital Markets

Thank you, and good day, everyone. I'm joined today by William Oplinger, Alcoa Corporation President and Chief Executive Officer; and Molly Beerman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We will take your questions after comments by Bill and Molly.

As a reminder, today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements relating to future events and expectations that are subject to various assumptions and caveats. Factors that may cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these statements are included in today's presentation and our SEC filings.

In addition, we have included some non-GAAP financial measures in this presentation. For historical non-GAAP financial measures, reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in the appendix to today's presentation. We have not presented quantitative reconciliations of certain forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures for reasons noted on this slide. Any reference in our discussion today to EBITDA means adjusted EBITDA.

Finally, as previously announced, the earnings press release and slide presentation are available on our website. Now I'd like to turn over the call to Bill.

William Oplinger
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Louis, and welcome to our fourth quarter 2025 earnings conference call. Today, we'll review our strong fourth quarter results, discuss our markets and review the progress we've made on strategic initiatives.

Let me begin with safety. Across all operations, our teams mobilized to strengthen fatality risk management at the front line. Our safety incident rates remained stable in the fourth quarter with fewer significant incidents in the second half of 2025. For the full year 2025, both our DART and all injuries rates improved compared to 2024, evidence of our continued progress in building a safer workplace.

In the fourth quarter, we delivered strong operational performance and stability, achieving annual production records at 5 of our smelters and 1 refinery. This includes achieving a remarkable 16 consecutive years of increased production at our Deschambault smelter in Canada, along with 8 consecutive years of record performance at our Mosjøen smelter in Norway. These additional tons contributed meaningfully to our bottom line as we delivered robust financial performance and cash generation in the quarter, which Molly will discuss in more detail.

We also improved our shipping performance in the fourth quarter across both segments with the higher aluminum shipments enabling us to deliver strong primary aluminum prices to the bottom line. The restart of the San Ciprián smelter is progressing well, with approximately 65% of the capacity in operation at the end of 2025. We continue to expect that the restart will be completed in the first half of 2026 as previously communicated.

We move forward on strategic initiatives in the fourth quarter. To name a few, we progressed negotiations on monetizing a transformation site in the U.S. and are expecting to reach an agreement in the first half of 2026. As we've discussed before, we are not simply monetizing former operating sites as land sales, we are working closely with developers to maximize value. We have multiple sites under discussion now.

In November, ELYSIS announced the successful start-up of its 450 kA inert anode cell. This represents a major milestone for the ELYSIS R&D program and a defining moment in the transition towards large-scale, low-carbon aluminum production. The design cell is part of a multiyear R&D program focused on developing inert anode technology at commercial scale.

We also advanced our Western Australia mine approvals by progressing our responses from the public comment period and continuing to work with stakeholders. We still anticipate ministerial approvals by year-end 2026 in line with the time line previously shared at Investor Day.

In summary, Alcoa closed the fourth quarter with strong operational and financial performance, supported by improved safety results and record production across multiple assets. Our momentum continues with progress on the company's strategic initiatives aimed at creating further value in 2026.

Now I'll turn it over to Molly to take us through the financial results.

Molly Beerman
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Bill. Revenue increased 15% sequentially to $3.4 billion. In the Alumina segment, third-party revenue increased 3% as higher shipments of both bauxite and alumina more than offset lower alumina prices. In the Aluminum segment, third-party revenue increased 21% on an increase in average realized third-party price and higher shipments across the segment. Fourth quarter net income attributable to Alcoa was $226 million, versus the prior quarter of $232 million, with earnings per share down slightly to $0.85 per share.

When you look at the GAAP income statement for the fourth quarter, there are several notable items. First, research and development expenses are negative $11 million in the fourth quarter. Beginning in 2025, Norway's CO2 compensation scheme included a requirement for recipients to spend 40% of the compensation received on emission reduction and energy efficiency measures. During the fourth quarter, Alcoa met the requirements and recognized $25 million as a reduction of the related R&D expenses. These impacts within EBITDA will not recur in the first quarter of 2026.

Second, below EBITDA, we recorded a noncash charge of $144 million to impair goodwill in the Alumina segment, primarily related to a 1994 acquisition. We perform an annual goodwill impairment assessment and current Alumina prices do not support this valuation. There is no goodwill remaining after this charge, and it is considered a special item.

Third, interest expense is lower in the fourth quarter. This reflects a benefit of $23 million related to recognition of capitalized interest on certain capital expenditures from prior periods. Last, we recorded a tax benefit of $133 million from the reversal of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets in Brazil, mainly due to improved profitability at the Alumar refinery. Changes in our discrete tax items such as this are consistently reflected as special items.

On an adjusted basis, net income attributable to Alcoa was $335 million or $1.26 per share, excluding net special items of $109 million. Notable special items include the goodwill impairment charge of $144 million, a mark-to-market loss of $70 million on the Ma'aden shares partially offset by $133 million from the tax valuation allowance reversal. Adjusted EBITDA was $546 million.

Let's look at the key drivers of EBITDA. The sequential increase in adjusted EBITDA of $276 million is primarily due to higher metal prices, driven by increases in both the LME and the Midwest premium. The Alumina segment adjusted EBITDA decreased $36 million primarily due to lower alumina prices partially offset by higher shipping volume of both bauxite and alumina and the non-recurrence of adjustments to asset retirement obligations recorded in the third quarter.

The Aluminum segment adjusted EBITDA increased $213 million, primarily due to higher metal prices, lower alumina costs as well as the recognition of CO2 compensation in Spain and Norway. These impacts were partially offset by increased tariff costs based on higher LME and higher production costs. Outside the segments, other corporate costs decreased and intersegment eliminations changed favorably primarily due to a lower average alumina price requiring less inventory profit elimination.

Moving on to cash flow activities for the fourth quarter and the full year 2025. We ended December with a strong cash balance of $1.6 billion. In the fourth quarter, we used cash from improved earnings and the release of working capital to repay the remaining $141 million of the 2027 notes and to fund sequentially higher capital expenditures. This reflects the strength of our aluminum portfolio and our ability to deliver elevated metal prices to the bottom line. Recall that we received $150 million of cash when the Ma'aden transaction closed in mid-2025 to cover taxes and fees. We have not yet received the final capital gains tax invoice so we now expect that payment to occur in the first quarter of 2026. As typical, capital expenditures and environmental and ARO payments are our largest uses of cash in 2025.

Now let's cover the key financial metrics for the fourth quarter and full year. In 2025, the company delivered improved performance on key cash flow and return on equity metrics and close the year with a strengthened balance sheet. Return on equity for the year was 16.4%, the highest since 2022. During the year, we returned $105 million to stockholders through our $0.10 per share quarterly dividend.

Free cash flow, including net noncontrolling interest contributions was $594 million for the year, including fourth quarter free cash flow of $294 million. The reduction in working capital contributed significantly to free cash flow generation in the fourth quarter with days working capital decreasing sequentially by 15 days to a level similar to the fourth quarter of 2024.

We finished the year at $1.5 billion of adjusted net debt, reaching the high end of our target range of $1 billion to $1.5 billion. While this is an important achievement reflecting strong financial performance, it is important to reinforce that our goal is not only to reach this range but to remain within it through the cycles. We have historically consumed cash in the first quarter, mainly due to increases in working capital. We will be mindful of the cash position in the first quarter of 2026 as we continue with disciplined execution of our capital allocation framework, prioritizing debt repayment and evaluating opportunities to create additional value for our stockholders.

Now let's turn to the outlook. For the full year 2026 outlook, we expect alumina production to range between 9.7 million and 9.9 million tons and shipments to range between 11.8 million and 12.0 million tons. The decrease in shipments reflects lower sales of externally-sourced alumina to satisfy certain customer commitments and lower alumina trading volumes. The aluminum segment production is expected to range between 2.4 million and 2.6 million tons and shipments are expected to range between 2.6 million and 2.8 million tons, both increasing primarily from the San Ciprián smelter restart.

In EBITDA items outside the segment, we expect transformation costs to be $100 million increased from last year primarily due to the inclusion of Kwinana holding costs for the full year in 2026. Other corporate expense will increase to approximately $160 million.

Below EBITDA, we expect depreciation of approximately $630 million. Nonoperating pension and OPEB expense is expected to be up slightly to $35 million. Interest expense is expected to approximate $140 million. For cash flow impacts, we expect 2026 pension and OPEB required cash funding to be slightly lower compared to 2025, around $60 million. The majority of that spend is for the U.S. OPEB plan.

Our capital returns to stockholders will continue to be aligned with our capital allocation framework. Our capital expenditure estimate is $750 million, with $675 million in sustaining and $75 million in return seeking. The sustaining capital increases $97 million over 2025, primarily due to a $65 million increase related to upcoming mine moves in Australia as well as higher spend on impoundments and anode bake furnace rebuilds. At our Investor Day last October, we indicated the potential to pursue government support for some of our capital spending that would reduce our overall CapEx. That work is progressing well, but we do not yet have confirmations to share.

Net payments on prior year's income taxes are expected to be approximately $230 million including our estimate for the Ma'aden capital gains tax. Environmental and ARO spending is expected to increase in 2026 to approximately $325 million primarily due to progress on the Kwinana site remediation. We do not provide guidance on full year cash restructuring charges.

For the first quarter of 2026 at the segment level, in alumina, we expect performance to be unfavorable by approximately $30 million due to typical first quarter impacts from the beginning of maintenance cycles and lower shipping volumes along with lower price and volume from bauxite offtake and supply agreements. In the aluminum segment, we expect performance to be unfavorable by approximately $70 million due to the non-recurrence of Spain and Norway CO2 compensation credits recorded in the fourth quarter as well as additional operating costs associated with the restart of the San Ciprián smelter. Alumina cost in the Aluminum segment is expected to be favorable by approximately $40 million.

Below EBITDA, within other expenses, the fourth quarter of 2025 included unfavorable foreign currency impacts of $20 million that may not recur. Based on last week's pricing, we expect the first quarter of 2026 operational tax expense to approximate $65 million to $75 million. Our sensitivities have been updated for our view of 2026. Please see the appendix.

Now I'll turn it back to Bill.

William Oplinger
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Molly. Let's begin with the alumina industry dynamics. FOB Western Australia alumina prices remained within a relatively narrow range and ended the year slightly lower than the third quarter average, continuing to pressure higher-cost refineries. On the supply side, we have not seen large scale curtailments announced to date. The Chinese government's continued emphasis on the orderly operation of the alumina industry as stated in the NDRC's December policy statement combined with refineries' efforts to maintain stable production through annual contract negotiations has extended steady supply conditions and discouraged large-scale curtailments. .

However, current pricing levels continue to put pressure on about 60% of China refineries. Looking ahead, incremental supply from expansion projects in China, Indonesia and India, combined with potential lower demand from the Mosjøen smelter may continue pressuring prices. However, anticipated smelting capacity growth, primarily in Indonesia could provide some demand support over the second half of 2026.

Turning to bauxite, prices remained relatively stable throughout the fourth quarter amid limited spot activity. However, despite strong demand, we have observed lower prices to start the year with supplies increasing in Guinea as restarted capacity from suspended licenses comes to market.

Despite near-term market pressures, we remain confident in the long-term fundamentals of the alumina industry. Alcoa is exceptionally well positioned to navigate market volatility and thanks to our low-cost mining and refining portfolio and our strong operational performance. And beyond our cost advantage, Alcoa's ability to provide value to customers through quality product and reliability enables us to secure long-term supply contracts with premiums above index pricing, highlighting Alcoa's position as the alumina supplier of choice for long-term partnerships.

Moving to aluminum, LME prices increased 8% sequentially in the fourth quarter and recently reached $3,200 per metric ton as strong underlying fundamentals including constrained supply and high demand projections continue in the market. This was further supported by the broader base metals rally, led by copper, geopolitical uncertainty and macroeconomic tailwinds. We also observed funds substantially increasing their long positions in aluminum over this period.

2025 ended with positive momentum for aluminum as inventories measured in days of consumption fell to their lowest year-end level in at least 15 years. On the demand side, we continue to see meaningful strength in the packaging and electrical sectors.

Going into 2026, Indonesia is emerging as a major aluminum producer with analysts forecasting approximately 700,000 metric tons of new production. However, recently announced disruptions in Iceland and Mozambique could remove over 550,000 metric tons from the market in 2026, almost offsetting the expected additions from Indonesia and limiting net global supply growth. China remains near its 45 million metric tons cap, which we continue to believe will be maintained. On 2026 demand, we anticipate continued growth globally, including in North America and Europe, which will remain in substantial deficits.

Alcoa's overall order book remains strong for value-added product sales the regional and segment-specific dynamics vary. In North America, raw demand for electrical sectors is exceptionally strong, while slab orders are steady and supported by robust packaging markets. Automotive slab demand has been temporarily affected by the Novelis' Oswego hot mill outage, but is showing signs of stability for 2026. Billet demand is currently flat, but showing early signs of improvement driven by reshoring. Foundry demand, however, remains challenged as tariffs pressure auto OEM profitability and supply chains.

In Europe, rod continues to outperform with demand consistently exceeding supply capacity. Packaging demand is strong, but faces growing competition from Chinese imports displaced by U.S. tariffs. Automotive-related slab demand remains weak with no recovery expected in 2026 due to low EV platform orders and uncertainty around new programs. Billet demand is soft across all segments, further impacted by slowdown in construction activity. Foundry demand is also low with extended customer shutdowns.

In aluminum, Alcoa is uniquely positioned to benefit from globally constrained supply and selling into high premium regions. In the fourth quarter, regional premiums strengthened across the board, supported by robust fundamentals, U.S. tariffs, supply disruptions and anticipation of Europe's carbon border adjustment mechanism scheme or CBAM.

In North America, the Midwest premium rose sharply, providing a significant benefit to Alcoa given our U.S. production. Importantly, the higher Midwest premium fully offset tariff costs on shipments from Canada to the U.S. and I'll remind everyone of the 4 smelters still operating in the U.S., Alcoa owns 2, giving us an advantage as the Midwest premium continues to increase.

In Europe, the Rotterdam regional premium increased in the fourth quarter, partially due to demand front loading ahead of CBAM's implementation in January 2026. CBAM implementation is expected to deliver a net benefit to Alcoa in 2026 because the anticipated increase in the Rotterdam premium should more than offset our incremental carbon emissions costs.

Under CBAM, foreign importers to Europe must purchase CBAM certificates to compensate for their carbon emissions. This increase in cost reflects the need for Europe in aluminum-deficit region to price imports high enough to attract marginal foreign producers that must now purchase CBAM certificates. Industry analysts estimate that CBAM could add roughly $40 per metric ton to the Rotterdam premium in 2026, and we believe some of this uplift was already included into the fourth quarter of 2025.

While CBAM certificates affect foreign importers, domestic European producers do not purchase CBAM credits and instead experience cost changes through the emissions trading system framework or ETS which sets the carbon cost for all domestic producers. Current free allowances under that program will be fully phased out by 2034, pushing carbon costs of domestic producers higher. However, Alcoa's European smelters are advantaged when compared to higher emitting producers due to their lower Scope 1 direct emissions driven by modern pot technology and strong operational stability. This makes our cost increase comparatively lower than competitors.

Overall, based on our internal analysis, we expect CBAM to generate a net positive impact of approximately $10 per metric ton in 2026, with the uplift in the Rotterdam premium outweighing our carbon cost increases. We will reconfirm this estimate as actual CBAM dynamics materialize. Additionally, the European Commission's December update strengthens CBAM by closing key circumvention risks such as scrap loopholes and inclusion of downstream products. We continue engaging with the commission to ensure the mechanism functions as intended.

In summary, our strong operating footprint in both North America and Europe provides a benefit to Alcoa from both U.S. tariffs and CBAM implementation.

To conclude, in the fourth quarter, Alcoa delivered strong operational stability, highlighted by annual production records across 5 smelters and 1 refinery, robust financial results and net cash generation. We advanced key actions to improve the competitiveness of our operations and further strengthen the company for long-term success. Looking ahead, our focus remains on safety, stability and operational excellence while continuing to advance strategic initiatives. We are well positioned to continue creating value in 2026, capitalizing on robust market fundamentals. We will maintain a disciplined capital allocation as we evaluate opportunities.

With that, let's open the floor for questions. Operator, please begin with the Q&A session.

