American Airlines Group Inc. (AAL) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Neil Russell - Vice President of Investor Relations
Robert Isom - CEO, President & Director
Devon May - Executive VP & CFO
Nathaniel Pieper - Chief Commercial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Conor Cunningham - Melius Research LLC
Catherine O'Brien - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
John Godyn - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Jamie Baker - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Michael Linenberg - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Scott Group - Wolfe Research, LLC
Christopher Stathoulopoulos - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Savanthi Syth - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Atul Maheswari - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Duane Pfennigwerth - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Niraj Chokshi - The New York Times Company

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to American Airlines Group's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the call over to Neil Russell, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Neil Russell
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, Latif, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to the American Airlines Group Earnings Conference Call. On the call with prepared remarks, we have our CEO, Robert Isom; and our CFO, Devon May. In addition, we have a number of senior executives in the room this morning for the Q&A session. After our prepared remarks, we will open the call for analyst questions followed by questions from the media. To get in as many questions as possible, please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.

Before we begin, please note that today's call contains forward-looking statements, including statements concerning future events, costs, forecast of capacity and fleet plans. These statements represent our predictions and expectations of future events, but numerous risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ from those projected.

Information about some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our earnings press release that was issued earlier this morning, Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Unless otherwise specified, all references to earnings per share are on an adjusted and diluted basis.

Additionally, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude the impact of unusual items. A reconciliation of those numbers to the GAAP financial measures is included in the earnings press release and investor presentation, each of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.

A webcast of this call will also be archived on our website. The information we are giving you on the call this morning is as of today's date, and we undertake no obligation to update the information subsequently. Thank you for your interest in American and for joining us this morning.

With that, I'll turn the call over to our CEO, Robert Isom.

Robert Isom
CEO, President & Director

Good morning, everyone. As we close out 2025, I'm extremely proud of the hard work and perseverance of the American Airlines team throughout the fourth quarter and the full year. Thank you to each of you. Your commitment to excellence is what makes American the premium global airline our customers trust. Thank you for navigating 2025 with resilience and for taking care of our customers throughout the holiday period. And I especially want to recognize the tremendous efforts of our team this past weekend and this week as we work through Winter Storm Fern, ensuring our customers and team members remain safe during this challenging weather event.

The impact of the storm is as significant as we've ever seen at American. Ice and freezing rain have significantly reduced operations, especially at DFW and Charlotte, our largest hubs for multiple days. Over the past 4 days, we've had to cancel more than 9,000 flights, making this the largest weather-related operational disruption in our history. We expect at least 2 more days of elevated cancellations before returning to normal operations later this week. While 2025 wasn't the year anyone in the industry thought it would be, and no matter the unique challenges American faced, we did the hard work to build a solid foundation for our future.

Our balance sheet is the strongest it's been in years. On the labor front, over the last 30 months, we've successfully negotiated ratified agreements with our pilots, flight attendants, mechanics, fleet service agents, passenger service agents, reservations agents and more recently, our flight crew training instructor and simulator pilot groups. Our fleet is in excellent shape. Thanks to the significant investments we've made, we have low capital requirements and no required aircraft retirements for the foreseeable future. Over the next few years, we will continue to expand our international fleet and premium seating through new deliveries and retrofit programs. Additionally, we've fully restored our historical sales and distribution indirect share with our focus now on further growth in 2026 and beyond.

Now we turn to the page to a new year and a momentous chapter in our history as we celebrate Americans Centennial. I'm excited about the opportunities that lie ahead for American as we begin to see the benefits of our work in 2026. Our strategy to deliver on American's revenue potential centers on 4 key areas: delivering a consistent, elevated customer experience, maximizing the power of our network and fleet, building partnerships that deepen loyalty and lifetime value and continuing to advance our sales, distribution and revenue management efforts.

While this has been a multiyear effort, 2026 will be the year these efforts start to bear fruit. We're off to a fast start based on the booking trends we've observed in January, all-time records for the first 3 weeks of the year. Starting with our first focus area, delivering a consistent elevated customer experience. We strive to create an experience that customers value and that our team members are proud to deliver. In the fourth quarter of 2025, our Net Promoter Score for on-time customers was the highest in our company's history and is expected to see even more improvement in 2026.

We continue to invest in the customer experience and premium products and services that differentiate American. Our new flagship suite product sets the industry standard of luxury for long-haul travel and has delivered leading customer satisfaction scores since its inauguration. We're expanding this product across our international capable fleet, including on the new Boeing 787-9s, the new Airbus 321XLRs and the retrofits of our existing 777 aircraft.

We're proud to offer the industry's leading lounge network, including the most premium lounges. We opened our newest flagship lounge in Philadelphia last year, and we also announced plans to bring new flagship lounges to Miami and Charlotte. We're also making significant investments to our Admirals Club lounges, including the renovation of our Concourse D Lounge at DCA and the introduction of provisions by Admirals Club at Charlotte, a first-of-its-kind lounge concept for travelers that are on the go.

We are also enhancing the onboard experience with the introduction of mattress pads for added comfort, upgraded food and beverage offerings and other thoughtful touches throughout the journey. Rolling out this month, AAdvantage members will enjoy complementary high-speed satellite WiFi on our narrow-body aircraft, dual-class regional jets and our new premium Boeing 787-9s, sponsored by AT&T, reinforcing connectivity as a core aspect of the customer journey and a benefit that our members value.

The early feedback shows increased satisfaction, especially among younger generations. American will offer more free high-speed satellite WiFi on more aircraft and on more flights than any other carrier in the world. We also know that reliability and disruption management are key drivers of customer satisfaction and revenue production, and we're taking steps to improve our reliability. First, we're transforming the way we operate at DFW to prepare for future growth at our largest and most profitable hub.

Moving to a new 13-bank structure is designed to increase customer connection opportunities, reduce air traffic delays and allow for quicker recovery during irregular operations, all while providing more on-time arrival certainty to our 100,000 customers traveling through DFW each day. Importantly, we expect this change will open the door to future expansion in a market with significant economic and population growth.

In the coming years, we'll see the completion of a new Terminal F along with further enhancements and gate expansion at 2 other terminals. Once completed, American will operate the largest single carrier hub in the world at DFW. We're also investing in our schedules and in technology to ensure more on-time arrivals, fewer misconnections and a smoother travel experience. We're bolstering our ability to get customers in their banks to where they're going on time, and we expect these changes will have a meaningful impact on customer satisfaction scores.

Our second focus area is maximizing the power of our network and fleet. We're a premium global airline with the strongest network in the U.S., the most important aviation market in the world. 8 of our hubs are located in the 10 largest metropolitan areas in the U.S. We're maximizing the power of our network, global reach of our partners to connect more people to more places than any other airline. Our current domestic growth plans for 2026 are focused on scaling hubs where we can grow our local share and fully utilize existing infrastructure, particularly in Philadelphia, Miami and Phoenix.

We'll also be rounding out our schedule in Chicago. Improved schedules, combined with product enhancements are helping us win local high-value customers. Our fleet order book has a diverse mix of aircraft size and operational capabilities. This provides the opportunity to grow our hubs, invest in our local markets and expand service globally. Our international offerings in 2026 will include new routes to premier destinations like Budapest and Prague and growth with our international joint business and One World partners.

We remain on track to increase our international capable fleet from 139 today to 200 aircraft by the end of the decade. We expect continued improvement in premium unit revenue, supported by growing demand and increased premium product availability. With our current order book and the announced reconfigurations of our 777-200, 777-300, A319 and A320 fleet will deliver significant premium seat growth over the coming years, nearly twice the rate of main cabin seats. Our lie-flat seats are expected to increase by over 50% by 2030.

Building partnerships that unlock loyalty and lifetime value is the third area of our focus. American invented airline loyalty and the AAdvantage program continues to lead the industry. We offer more value per mile, countless ways to earn and redeem miles and more ways to engage with AAdvantage members, including complementary WiFi that started this month. AAdvantage enrollments increased 7% year-over-year, marking our greatest number of annual enrollments with Chicago leading the way, up nearly 20% year-over-year.

2025 marked a record year for our co-branded credit card program with spending on our cards up 8% year-over-year. This momentum sets the stage for our exclusive 10-year co-branded credit card partnership with Citi, which went into effect on January 1. In the fourth quarter, we successfully transitioned in-flight and airport acquisition channels from Barclays to Citi, and our focus in 2026 now shifts to card conversions.

The Citi partnership gives our customers the most straightforward and seamless path to status in the industry. With a Citi co-branded credit card, members earn loyalty points for every dollar spent, creating more benefits for customers to engage with American. Our partnership with Citi is designed to drive long-term growth in credit card acquisitions and spend and the upside is significant. These efforts, combined with the strength of our AAdvantage program will deepen engagement, enhance customer loyalty and deliver meaningful long-term value to American.

Lastly, we remain focused on the continued advancement of our sales, distribution and revenue management efforts. As we closed the year, we had restored our indirect channel share, an important milestone, but not the end of our initiative. As we move into 2026, we will continue to deepen the relationships that we've built with our corporate and agency partners and capture greater share among high-value corporate travelers and premium leisure customers.

Across the commercial organization, we see significant opportunities by sharpening our fare product architecture and continuing to improve our revenue management processes and technology. In the fourth quarter, we made changes to our basic economy product to drive clear segmentation while still offering a better basic product than any of our competitors. Throughout the year, we will continue evaluating our premium offerings, particularly our extra leg room product, which is a compelling option for corporate customers.

And finally, we will continue innovating our commercial systems through the deployment of best-in-class technology solutions. And lastly, I want to acknowledge that this week marks the 1-year anniversary of the tragic accident of Flight 5342. We remain committed to supporting everyone affected by that tragedy through our office of continued care and outreach. And I want to commend our team for handling this difficult situation in an exemplary way.

Devon will now share more about our financial results and the 2026 outlook.

Devon May
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Robert. Excluding net special items, American reported fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share of $0.16 and full year adjusted earnings per share of $0.36. These results came in below our guidance, primarily due to the prolonged government shutdown, which impacted revenue by approximately $325 million. The impact of the government shutdown was largely concentrated in the domestic entity, where American has the largest exposure, especially our hub at DCA and its relative weighting towards government-related traffic.

This disruption was temporary, but it impacted revenue in November and December. Following softer-than-expected bookings late in the fourth quarter, bookings strengthened meaningfully in January. System-wide revenue intakes for the first 3 weeks of 2026 are up double digits year-over-year. Premium continued to outperform Main Cabin throughout the quarter, a trend that has remained consistent all year, underscoring the strength of the premium customer and demand for the premium products we offer.

Our fourth quarter year-over-year premium unit revenue outpaced Main Cabin by 7 points. We continue to see strength in our indirect channels with managed corporate revenue up 12% year-over-year, which has strengthened further so far in 2026. Looking ahead, we expect premium unit revenue momentum to remain strong in 2026, but also expect Main Cabin to deliver strong year-over-year improvement, assuming a stable macroeconomic backdrop.

Year-over-year unit revenue for the domestic entity had inflected positive in September and remained positive before the impact of the government shutdown. Excluding the government shutdown, year-over-year domestic unit revenue would have been positive for the quarter. Our international entities performed in line with the guidance we provided in October. Atlantic unit revenue was up 4% year-over-year, and it was our most profitable region during the quarter as seasonal demand trends and demand for our premium offerings continued to strengthen in the fourth quarter.

Once again, unit revenues in Latin America remained under pressure during the quarter. We expect this to be a continued headwind for the first half of 2026. As we have said in the past, American's presence in the region, the premium services we offer and the scale we have in Miami and our other southern hubs allow for profitable results in this environment and a continued long-term competitive advantage.

And finally, Pacific unit revenue was slightly down year-over-year, but showed sequential improvement from the third quarter, supported by strength in the premium cabins. Looking to Q1, we expect domestic unit revenue to get back on trend and be nicely positive for the quarter, driven by both strength in premium and main cabin demand. We expect international unit revenue performance will be mixed with continued strong transatlantic performance and flattish unit revenue in the Latin America and Pacific entities.

As Robert mentioned earlier, American is continuing to invest in expanding our premium offerings across the customer journey. We are already recognized among the U.S. network carriers for having the highest rated and most consistent products across our long-haul fleet, and we expect to expand that product further in 2026 with 10 additional A321XLR deliveries and the full utilization of our 11 premium Boeing 787-9s.

Additionally, our Boeing 777-300 retrofit has started and customers will enjoy a 20% increase in premium seats as the retrofitted aircraft roll out this year and next. These efforts will continue in future years with retrofits on the Boeing 777-200, the A319 and the A320 fleets. With these investments in our existing fleet, along with our new deliveries, we expect our premium seat growth will outpace our non-premium offerings each year for the remainder of the decade.

Now on to our earnings outlook for 2026. Our guidance today reflects our preliminary estimate of Winter Storm Fern. Our guidance always includes a completion factor assumption for winter weather. But as Robert mentioned earlier, the impact of this storm is unlike anything we have ever experienced. For the first quarter, capacity is projected to be up 3% to 5% year-over-year as we maximize the value of our network through stronger schedules in many of our hub cities. This is inclusive of approximately 1.5 points impact from Winter Storm Fern.

Our 2026 capacity plan includes significant growth in Philadelphia, Miami and Phoenix as we take advantage of near-term opportunities and utilize existing facilities. Our growth for the year is expected to be evenly balanced across domestic and international entities. We expect first quarter revenue to be up between 7% and 10% year-over-year, driven by improvements in the domestic entity from expected growth in corporate passenger volumes and as demand continues to recover as we lap the challenges experienced in the first quarter of 2025.

This includes an estimated revenue impact of between $150 million to $200 million from the ongoing Winter Storm Fern. First quarter CASM ex fuel, ex profit sharing and net special items is anticipated to be up between 3% and 5% as we absorb the flight attendant boarding pay and additional benefit that went into effect in the second quarter of 2025 and as we staff ahead of the summer to support peak growth. The CASM-ex impact from Winter Storm Fern is approximately 1.5 points. We remain confident in our ability to deliver the most efficient capacity in the industry as we continue our multiyear effort to reengineer the business.

This transformation leverages technology and streamlines processes to enable an improved customer and team member experience while driving a more efficient business. These efficiencies enable our mainline work groups to operate at their highest productivity levels, partially mitigating the impact of contractual labor rate increases and other inflationary pressures. In 2026, we expect an additional $250 million of savings from these efforts versus 2025, bringing our cumulative operating savings to nearly $1 billion since 2023 and total working capital improvements of nearly $900 million, meeting the expectations set at the start of the program.

With this first quarter guidance, inclusive of the impact of Winter Storm Fern, we expect to deliver an adjusted loss per diluted share of between $0.10 and $0.50. The guidance range for the quarter is slightly wider than what we traditionally use as we continue to evaluate the impact of this extraordinary weather event. For the full year, we expect adjusted earnings per diluted share of approximately $1.70 to $2.70.

Lastly, turning to CapEx and the balance sheet. In 2026, we expect to take delivery of 55 new aircraft. Based on our current expectations, our 2026 total capital expenditures are expected to be between $4 billion and $4.5 billion, consistent with our prior guidance. Based on these earnings and capital projections, we anticipate free cash flow generation of more than $2 billion for the full year. We continue to make significant progress in strengthening our balance sheet. At the start of 2025, we committed to reducing total debt by approximately $4 billion to less than $35 billion by the end of 2027.

During 2025, we reduced total debt by $2.1 billion, bringing our total debt to $36.5 billion. At the midpoint of our EPS and CapEx guidance, we would hit our 2027 goal to have total debt below $35 billion, a year ahead of schedule in 2026. And with over $2 billion of free cash flow this year, we expect that by year-end, we will have our lowest level of net debt since the end of 2014.

I'll now hand the call back to Robert for closing remarks.

Robert Isom
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Devon. This year marks our 100th anniversary, a remarkable milestone that reflects a legacy of innovation, resilience and caring for people on life's journey. We've been innovators since the beginning. We invented the first reservation system and the first revenue management system, the first airport lounge and the first airline loyalty program, which continues to lead the industry today. From our humble beginnings as a mail carrier between Chicago and St. Louis, today, American Airlines is a premium global airline that connects more of the U.S. to the world, powered by a proud team of over 130,000 aviation professionals, unmatched in talent and spirit with a proven ability to adapt, innovate and always strive for better.

I've been in this business for a long time, and I'm incredibly excited about what lies ahead for American. The foundation we built in 2025, combined with our go-forward strategy, positions us to deliver sustainable growth and create long-term value for our customers, team members and shareholders. American's tagline for our centennial year is forever forward. It embodies all the things that we've accomplished over the past 100 years and all the opportunities in front of us.

From elevating the travel experience and strengthening our network to unlocking loyalty and driving efficiency, we're executing on the strategy and initiatives that will drive value and shape our next 100 years as a premium global airline. Thank you for your interest in American Airlines. And operator, you may now open the line for questions.

