Abbott Laboratories (ABT) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Michael Comilla - Vice President of Investor Relations.
Robert Ford - Chairman, President & CEO
Philip Boudreau - CFO & Executive VP of Finance

Conference Call Participants

Larry Biegelsen - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
David Roman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Robert Marcus - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Vijay Kumar - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Danielle Antalffy - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Matthew Taylor - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Travis Steed - BofA Securities, Research Division
Joanne Wuensch - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Joshua Jennings - TD Cowen, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Abbott's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

This call is being recorded by Abbott. With the exception of any participants' questions asked during the question-and-answer session, the entire call, including the question-and-answer session, is material copyrighted by Abbott. It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Abbott's expressed written permission.

I would now like to introduce Mr. Mike Comilla, Vice President, Investor Relations.

Michael Comilla
Vice President of Investor Relations.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us. With me today are Robert Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Phil Boudreau, Executive Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer.

Robert and Phil will provide opening remarks. Following their comments, we'll take your questions. Before we get started, some statements made today may be forward-looking for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including the expected results for 2026. Abbott cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of subsequent events or developments, except as required by law.

On today's conference call, as in the past, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Abbott's ongoing business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with the comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings news release and regulatory filings from today, which are available on our website at abbott.com. Note that Abbott has not provided the related GAAP financial measures on a forward-looking basis for the non-GAAP financial measures for which it is providing guidance because the company is unable to predict, with reasonable certainty and without unreasonable effort, the timing and impact of certain items, which could significantly impact Abbott's results in accordance with GAAP. Unless otherwise noted, our commentary on sales growth refers to organic sales growth, which is defined in the press release issued earlier today.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Robert.

Robert Ford
Chairman, President & CEO

Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Before discussing our fourth quarter results, I want to take a moment to reflect on 2025, a year that demonstrated Abbott's leadership in innovation, disciplined execution and strategic actions taken to position the company for sustainable long-term growth.

Innovation continues to be the foundation of our success. In 2025, we achieved several important milestones that strengthen our position for the future, including regulatory approvals for our Volt and TactiFlex Duo PFA products, a new indication for our Navitor TAVR valve, CMS national coverage for TriClip and CardioMEMS, completing enrollment in our pivotal trial to bring a new LAA device to market, filing for FDA approval for our dual glucose-ketone sensor, initiating the pivotal trial of our coronary IVL device, starting the launch sequence in EPD to bring biosimilars to emerging markets and recently starting the launch sequence in Nutrition to bring new products to market that meet evolving consumer preferences.

2025 was also a year of disciplined execution. We delivered top-tier margin expansion and achieved our original target of double-digit earnings growth in earnings per share despite implementation of new tariffs and heightened market challenges in China. Finally, in 2025, we made important strategic moves to shape Abbott's future. Our announced acquisition of Exact Sciences will allow Abbott to enter and lead in the fast-growing cancer diagnostics market and adds a new high-growth business with an attractive pipeline to the Abbott portfolio.

We expect 2026 to be another year powered by innovation, operational excellence and strategic execution. As we announced this morning, we forecast the midpoint of our 2026 organic sales growth range to be 7% and the midpoint of our adjusted earnings per share range to reflect 10% growth.

I'll now summarize the fourth quarter results in more detail. I'll start with Nutrition, where sales declined in the quarter. Abbott has been in Nutrition business for more than 60 years. And with that history comes experience, not just in times of growth but in times that require navigating challenges. And as I mentioned last quarter, the U.S. pediatric business is seeing an impact from market share loss, partly due to the loss of a large WIC contract last year. But our results this quarter underscore a broader challenge, which is the need to reignite volume growth, a challenge many consumer goods businesses face today.

Over the last several years, we've seen manufacturing costs in Nutrition rise, in part due to a post-pandemic-driven surge in commodity cost that remains in our cost base today. We've increased prices to help mitigate the impact of higher manufacturing costs, but those price increases in the current economic environment have become a factor in constraining volume growth. Many consumer goods businesses are facing this dynamic. Higher manufacturing costs led to higher prices, which in turn are suppressing demand as consumers become increasingly more price sensitive.

Path is not sustainable in the long term, so we began to make changes in the fourth quarter. Our goal is to transition our business back to one with a more balanced growth profile with volume growth playing a greater role going forward. In the fourth quarter, we began implementing price and promotion initiatives to help start the process of reigniting volume growth.

To further drive volume growth, we are increasing our focus on innovation, which is an area that was deprioritized for the last few years given the necessary heavy focus on production and supply chain management in this business. Following the launch of 2 new versions of Ensure late last year, we expect to launch at least 8 new products over the course of the next 12 months. We expect performance in the Nutrition to remain challenged in the first half of the year with a return to growth in the second half. While this transition back to a more sustainable volume-driven business has consequences on our near-term results, these are the right steps to take to better position the business for long-term success.

Moving to Diagnostics, where sales declined 3.5% due to the anticipated year-over-year decline in COVID testing sales. Core Lab Diagnostics grew 3.5%, achieving a third consecutive quarter of accelerating growth and building steady momentum as we enter 2026. For the full year, excluding China, growth in Core Lab Diagnostics was 7%, reflecting durable demand in markets around the world. In Point of Care Diagnostics, sales grew 7% in the quarter, driven by adoption of our high-sensitivity troponin test, which allows for earlier and more accurate detection of heart attack.

Turning to EPD, where sales increased 7% in the quarter. Growth was well balanced across the markets and therapeutic areas that we participate in, including double-digit growth in India and several countries across Latin America and the Middle East. By focusing on high-demand therapies in faster-growing markets, EPD delivered its fifth consecutive year of sales growth exceeding 7%.

And I'll wrap up with Medical Devices, where sales grew 10.5%. In Diabetes Care, sales of continuous glucose monitors grew 12% in the fourth quarter and 17% for the year, with sales in 2025 exceeding $7.5 billion. This marks the third consecutive year that our CGM sales have grown by more than $1 billion. Our success in CGM continues to be driven by strong underlying market fundamentals, a leading position in cost and scale and an unwavering commitment for market-leading innovation. These factors have led to a continued increase in adoption across all of the various user groups.

In Electrophysiology, sales grew double digits in the U.S. and internationally. In December, we announced FDA approval of our Volt PFA catheter, which represents our first PFA product offering in the United States. And earlier this week, we announced that we obtained CE Mark for our new TactiFlex Duo Ablation Catheter, which offers both RF and PFA energy to treat patients battling AFib.

In Structural Heart, growth was driven by double-digit growth in Navitor, double-digit growth in TriClip, double-digit growth in MitraClip. In the coming weeks, we'll achieve an important milestone by completing enrollment in our CATALYST trial. This trial is evaluating the performance of Amulet left atrial appendage device compared to oral anticoagulants in patients with AFib. This trial is designed to generate the evidence to demonstrate the clinical benefits of Amulet, which could lead to broader adoption and expansion of the addressable market.

In Heart Failure, growth of 12% was driven by growth across our market-leading portfolio of ventricular assist devices, which offer treatment for chronic and temporary conditions and growth in CardioMEMS, our implantable sensor used for the early detection of heart failure.

Our investment strategy in Medical Devices is based upon a two-pronged approach. We invest to sustain strong performance in high-growth segments like Diabetes, Structural Heart, Electrophysiology and Heart Failure, and we invest to increase the growth outlook in more foundational segments like Rhythm Management and Vascular. While the investments in traditionally high-growth segments tend to get more attention, the investments we've made in our foundational businesses are generating very impressive returns.

In Rhythm Management, growth of 12% was led by continued strong uptake of our leadless pacemaker AVEIR. For the full year, growth of 10% in Rhythm Management represents the third consecutive year of significantly outperforming the market. With AVEIR and the investments we're making in conduction system pacing and other novel technologies, we see the $10 billion Rhythm Management market as a great opportunity to capture market share and drive sustainable growth for years to come.

In Vascular, growth of 6.5% was led by double-digit growth in vessel closure products and growth from Esprit, our below-the-knee resorbable stent. For the full year, Vascular sales grew 5%, making this the second consecutive year Vascular has delivered mid-single-digit growth. With the expected approval of our coronary IVL device next year, we expect growth in Vascular to follow a similar pattern of acceleration that we've seen in Rhythm Management.

And lastly, in Neuromodulation, growth of 5.5% was led by strong international growth of Eterna, our rechargeable spinal cord stimulation device. So in summary, despite facing some challenges in 2025, we achieved our original target of double-digit earnings per share growth. Our new product pipeline continues to be highly productive. And combined with the strategic steps we took to shape the company for the future, we're well positioned for accelerating growth in 2026.

I'll now turn over the call to Phil.

Philip Boudreau
CFO & Executive VP of Finance

Thanks, Robert. As Mike mentioned earlier, please note that all references to sales growth rates, unless otherwise noted, are on an organic basis.

Turning to our fourth quarter results. Sales increased 3.8% when excluding COVID testing sales. Adjusted earnings per share of $1.50 reflects growth of 12% compared to the prior year. Foreign exchange had a favorable year-over-year impact of 1.4% on fourth quarter sales, which was in line with our expectations at the time of our earnings call in October. Regarding other aspects of the P&L, the adjusted gross margin profile was 57.1% of sales, which, despite the impact of tariffs, increased 20 basis points compared to the prior year. Adjusted R&D was 6.2% of sales and adjusted SG&A was 25.1% of sales. Adjusted operating margin was 25.8% of sales, which reflects an increase of 150 basis points compared to the prior year.

Turning to our outlook for 2026. Today, we issued guidance for full year adjusted earnings per share of $5.55 to $5.80, which reflects 10% growth at the midpoint of the range and contemplates an adjusted earnings per share forecast of $1.12 to $1.18 for the first quarter. For the year, we forecast organic sales growth to be in the range of 6.5% to 7.5%. Based on current rates, we expect exchange to have a favorable impact of around 1% on full year reported sales, which includes an expected favorable impact of around 3% on first quarter reported sales. And we forecast our adjusted tax rate to be in the range of 15% to 16%.

With that, we'll now open the call for questions.

