Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Matthew Ramsay - Vice President of Financial Strategy & Investor Relations
Lisa Su - Chair, President & CEO
Jean Hu - Executive VP, CFO, Treasurer & Interim Chief Accounting Officer

Conference Call Participants

Vivek Arya - BofA Securities, Research Division
Thomas O'Malley - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Joshua Buchalter - TD Cowen, Research Division
Christopher Muse - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Stacy Rasgon - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Timothy Arcuri - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Antoine Chkaiban - New Street Research LLP
Joseph Moore - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the AMD Third Quarter 2025 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce to you Matt Ramsay, VP, Financial Strategy and Investor Relations. Thank you, Matt. You may begin.

Matthew Ramsay
Vice President of Financial Strategy & Investor Relations

Thank you, and welcome to AMD's Third Quarter 2025 Financial Results Conference Call. By now, you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings press release and the accompanying slides. If you have not had the opportunity to review these materials, they can be found on the Investor Relations page of amd.com.

We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial measures during today's call. The full non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations are available in today's press release and the slides posted on our website. Participants in today's conference call are Dr. Lisa Su, our Chair and CEO; and Jean Hu, our Executive Vice President, CFO and Treasurer. This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast on our website.

Before we begin the call, I would like to note that Dr. Lisa Su, along with members of AMD's executive team, will present our long-term financial strategy at our Financial Analyst Day next Tuesday, November 11 in New York. Dr. Lisa Su will present at the UBS Global Technology and AI Conference on Wednesday, December 3. And finally, Jean Hu will present at the 23rd Annual Barclays Global Technology Conference on Wednesday, December 10.

Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on our current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of today and as such involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to deliver -- to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to the cautionary statement in our press release for more information on these factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.

And with that, I will hand the call over to Lisa.

Lisa Su
Chair, President & CEO

Thank you, Matt, and good afternoon to all those listening today. We delivered an outstanding quarter with record revenue and profitability, reflecting broad-based demand across our data center AI, server and PC businesses. Revenue grew 36% year-over-year to $9.2 billion. Net income rose 31%, and free cash flow more than tripled led by record EPYC, Ryzen and Instinct processor sales. Our record third quarter performance marks a clear step-up in our growth trajectory as the combination of our expanding compute franchise and rapidly scaling data center AI business drives significant revenue and earnings growth.

Turning to our segments. Data center segment revenue increased 22% year-over-year to a record $4.3 billion led by the ramp of our Instinct MI350 Series GPUs and server share gains. Server CPU revenue reached an all-time high as adoption of 5th Gen EPYC Turin processors accelerated rapidly, accounting for nearly half of overall EPYC revenue in the quarter. Sales of our prior generation EPYC processors were also very robust in the quarter reflecting their strong competitive positioning across a wide range of workloads.

In cloud, we had record sales as hyperscalers expanded EPYC CPU deployments to power both their own first-party services and public cloud offerings. Hyperscalers launched more than 160 EPYC-powered instances in the quarter, including new Turin offerings from Google, Microsoft Azure, Alibaba and others that deliver unmatched performance and price performance across a wide range of workloads. There are now more than 1,350 public EPYC cloud instances available globally, a nearly 50% increase from a year ago.

Adoption of EPYC in the cloud by large businesses more than tripled year-over-year as our on-prem share gains are driving increased demand from enterprise customers for AMD cloud instances to support hybrid compute. We expect cloud demand to remain very strong as hyperscalers are significantly increasing their general-purpose compute capacity as they scale their AI workloads. Many customers are now planning substantially larger CPU build-outs over the coming quarters to support increased demands from AI serving as a powerful new catalyst for our server business.

Turning to enterprise adoption. EPYC server sell-through increased sharply year-over-year and sequentially reflecting accelerating enterprise adoption. More than 170 5th Gen EPYC platforms are in market from HPE, Dell, Lenovo, Super Micro and others, our broadest portfolio to date with solutions optimized for virtually every enterprise workload. We closed large new wins in the quarter with leading Fortune 500 technology, telecom, financial services, retail, streaming, social and automotive companies as we expand our footprint across major verticals. The performance and TCO advantages of our EPYC portfolio combined with our increased go-to-market investments and the expanded breadth of offerings from the leading server and solutions providers position us well for continued enterprise share gains.

Looking ahead, we remain on track to launch our next-generation 2-nanometer Venice processors in 2026. Venice silicon is in the labs and performing very well, delivering substantial gains in performance, efficiency and compute density. Customer pull and engagement for Venice are the strongest we have seen reflecting our competitive positioning and the growing demand for more data center compute. Multiple cloud OEM partners have already brought their first Venice platforms online, setting the stage for broad solution availability and cloud deployments at launch.

Turning to data center AI. Our Instinct GPU business continues to accelerate. Revenue grew year-over-year driven by the sharp ramp of MI350 Series GPU sales and broader MI MI300 Series deployments. Multiple MI350 Series deployments are underway with large cloud and AI providers, with additional large-scale rollouts on track to ramp over the coming quarters.

Oracle became the first hyperscaler to publicly offer MI355X instances, delivering significantly higher performance for real-time inference and multimodal training workloads on OCI zettascale supercluster. Neocloud providers Crusoe, DigitalOcean, TensorWave, Vultr and others also began ramping availability of their MI350 Series public cloud offerings in the quarter. MI300 Series GPU deployments with AI developers also broadened in the quarter. IBM and Zyphra will train multiple generations of future multimodal models on a large-scale MI300X cluster. And Cohere is now using MI300X at OCI to train its Command family of models. For inference, a number of new partners, including Character.AI and Luma AI, are now running production workloads on MI300 Series demonstrating the performance and TCO advantages of our architecture for real-time AI applications.

We also made significant progress on the software front in the quarter. We launched ROCm 7, our most advanced and feature-rich release to date, delivering up to 4.6x higher inference and 3x higher training performance compared to ROCm 6. ROCm 7 also introduces seamless distributed inference, enhanced code portability across hardware and new enterprise tools that simplify the deployment and management of Instinct solutions. Importantly, our open software strategy is resonating with developers. Hugging Face, vLLM, SGLang and others contributed directly to ROCm 7 as we make ROCm the open platform for AI development at scale.

Looking ahead, our data center AI business is entering its next phase of growth with customer momentum building rapidly ahead of the launch of our next-gen MI400 Series accelerators and Helios rack-scale solutions in 2026. The MI400 Series combines a new compute engine with industry-leading memory capacity and advanced networking capabilities to deliver a major leap in performance for the most demanding AI training and inference workloads. The MI400 Series brings together our silicon, software and systems expertise to power Helios, our rack-scale AI platform designed to redefine performance and efficiency at data center scale.

Helios integrates our Instinct MI400 Series GPUs, Venice EPYC CPUs and Pensando NICs in a double-wide rack solution optimized for the performance, power, cooling and serviceability required for the next generation of AI infrastructure and supports Meta's new open rack wide standard. Development of both our MI400 Series GPUs and Helios rack is progressing rapidly, supported by deep technical engagements across a growing set of hyperscalers, AI companies and OEM and ODM partners to enable large-scale deployments next year.

The ZT Systems team we acquired last year is playing a critical role in Helios development, leveraging their decades of experience building infrastructure for the world's largest cloud providers to ensure customers can deploy and scale Helios quickly within their environments. In addition, last week, we completed the sale of the ZT manufacturing business to Sanmina and entered a strategic partnership that makes them our lead manufacturing partner for Helios. This collaboration will accelerate large customer deployments of our rack-scale AI solutions.

On the customer front, we announced a comprehensive multiyear agreement with OpenAI to deploy 6 gigawatts of Instinct GPUs with the first gigawatt of MI450 Series accelerators scheduled to start coming online in the second half of 2026. The partnership establishes AMD as a core compute provider for OpenAI and underscores the strength of our hardware, software and full stack solution strategy. Moving forward, AMD and OpenAI will work even more closely on future hardware, software, networking and system-level road maps and technologies.

OpenAI's decision to use AMD Instinct platforms for its most sophisticated and complex AI workloads sends a clear signal that our Instinct GPUs and ROCm open software stack deliver the performance and TCO required for the most demanding deployments. We expect this partnership will significantly accelerate our data center AI business with the potential to generate well over $100 billion in revenue over the next few years. Oracle announced they will also be a lead launch partner for the MI450 Series, deploying tens of thousands of MI450 GPUs across Oracle Cloud Infrastructure beginning in 2026 and expanding through 2027 and beyond.

Our Instinct platforms are also gaining traction with sovereign AI and national supercomputing programs. In the UAE, Cisco and G42 will deploy a large-scale AI cluster powered by Instinct MI350X GPUs to support the nation's most advanced AI workloads. In the U.S., we are partnering with the Department of Energy and Oak Ridge National Labs to build Lux AI, the first AI factory dedicated to scientific discovery together with our industrial partners, OCI and HPE. Powered by our Instinct MI350 series GPUs, EPYC CPUs and Pensando networking, Lux AI will provide a secure open platform for large-scale training and distributed inference when it comes online in early 2026.

The U.S. Department of Energy also selected our upcoming MI430X GPUs and EPYC Venice CPUs to power Discovery, the next flagship supercomputer at Oak Ridge designed to set the standard for AI-driven scientific computing and extend U.S. high-performance computing leadership. Our MI430X GPUs are designed specifically to power nation-scale AI and supercomputing programs, extending our leadership, powering the world's most powerful computers to enable the next generation of scientific breakthroughs.

In summary, our AI business is entering a new phase of growth and is on a clear trajectory towards tens of billions in annual revenue in 2027 driven by our leadership rack-scale solutions, expanding customer adoption and an increasing number of large-scale global deployments. I look forward to providing more details on our data center AI growth plans at our Financial Analyst Day next week.

In client and gaming, segment revenue increased 73% year-over-year to $4 billion. Our PC processor business is performing exceptionally well with record quarterly sales as the strong demand environment and breadth of our leadership Ryzen portfolio accelerates growth. Desktop CPU sales reached an all-time high with record channel sell-in and sell-out led by robust demand for our Ryzen 9000 processors which deliver unmatched performance across gaming, productivity and content creation applications. OEM sell-through of Ryzen-powered notebooks also increased sharply in the quarter reflecting sustained end customer pull for premium gaming and commercial AMD PCs.

Commercial momentum accelerated in the quarter with Ryzen PC sell-through up more than 30% year-over-year as enterprise adoption grew sharply driven by large wins with Fortune 500 companies across health care, financial services, manufacturing, automotive and pharmaceuticals. Looking ahead, we see significant opportunity to continue growing our client business faster than the overall PC market based on the strength of our Ryzen portfolio, broader platform coverage and expanded go-to-market investments.

In gaming, revenue increased 181% year-over-year to $1.3 billion. Semi-custom revenue increased as Sony and Microsoft prepare for the upcoming holiday sales period. In gaming graphics, revenue and channel sell-out grew significantly driven by the performance per dollar leadership of our Radeon 9000 family. FSR 4, our machine learning upscaling technology that boosts frame rates and creates more immersive visuals saw rapid adoption this quarter with the number of supported games doubling since launch to more than 85.

Turning to our embedded segment. Revenue decreased 8% year-over-year to $857 million. Sequentially, revenue and sell-through increased as the demand environment strengthened across multiple markets led by test and emulation, aerospace and defense, and industrial, vision and health care. We expanded our embedded product portfolio with new solutions that extend our leadership across adaptive and x86 computing. We began shipping industry-leading Versal Prime Series Gen 2 adaptive SoCs to lead customers, delivered our first Versal RF development platforms to support several next-generation design wins and introduced the Ryzen Embedded 9000 Series with industry-leading performance per watt and latency for robotics, edge computing and smart factory applications.

The design momentum remains very strong across our embedded portfolio. We are on track for a second straight year of record design wins already totaling more than $14 billion year-to-date, reflecting the growing adoption of our leadership products across a broad range of markets and expanding set of applications. In summary, our record third quarter results and strong fourth quarter outlook reflect the significant momentum building across our business driven by sustained product leadership and disciplined execution. Our data center AI, server and PC businesses are each entering periods of strong growth led by an expanding TAM, accelerating adoption of our Instinct platforms and EPYC and Ryzen CPU share gains.

The demand for compute has never been greater as every major breakthrough in business, science and society now relies on access to more powerful, efficient and intelligent computing. These trends are driving unprecedented growth opportunities for AMD. I look forward to sharing more on our strategy, road maps and long-range financial targets at our financial analyst meeting next week.

Now I'll turn the call over to Jean to provide additional color on our third quarter results. Jean?

Jean Hu
Executive VP, CFO, Treasurer & Interim Chief Accounting Officer

Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll start with a review of our financial results and then provide our outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025. We are pleased with our strong third quarter financial results. We delivered a record revenue of $9.2 billion, up 36% year-over-year, exceeding the high end of our guidance, reflecting strong momentum across our business. Our third quarter results do not include any revenue from shipments of the MI308 GPU products to China. Revenue increased 20% sequentially driven by strong growth in the data center, and client and gaming segment and modest growth in the embedded segment.

Gross margin was 54%, up 40 basis points year-over-year primarily driven by product mix. Operating expenses were approximately $2.8 billion, an increase of 42% year-over-year as we continue to invest aggressively in R&D to capitalize on significant AI opportunities and go-to-market activities for revenue growth. Operating income was $2.2 billion, representing a 24% operating margin. Taxes, interest expense and other totaled $273 million. For the third quarter of 2025, diluted earnings per share were $1.20 compared to $0.92 a year ago, an increase of 30% year-over-year.

Now turning to our reportable segments, starting with data center. Data center segment revenue was a record of $4.3 billion, up 22% year-over-year primarily driven by the strong demand for 5th Generation EPYC processors and Instinct MI350 Series GPUs. On a sequential basis, data center revenue increased 34%, primarily driven by strong ramp of our AMD Instinct MI350 Series GPUs. The data center segment operating income was $1.1 billion or 25% of revenue compared to $1 billion a year ago or 29% of revenue driven by higher revenue partially offset by higher R&D investment to capitalize on significant AI opportunities.

Client and gaming segment revenue was a record of $4 billion, up 73% year-over-year and 12% sequentially driven by strong demand for the latest generation of client and graphic processors and stronger sales of console gaming products. In the client business, revenue was a record $2.8 billion, up 46% year-over-year and 10% sequentially driven by record sales of our Ryzen processors and a richer product mix. Gaming revenue rose to $1.3 billion, up 181% year-over-year and 16% sequentially, reflecting higher semi-custom revenue and strong demand for our Radeon GPUs. Client and gaming segment operating income was $867 million or 21% of revenue compared to $288 million or 12% a year ago, driven by higher revenue partially offset by increase in go-to-market investment to support our revenue growth.

Embedded segment revenue was $857 million, down 8% year-over-year. Embedded was up 4% sequentially as we saw certain end market demand strengthen. Embedded segment operating income was $283 million or 33% of revenue compared to $372 million or 40% a year ago. The decline in operating income was primarily due to lower revenue and end market mix. Before I review the balance sheet and the cash flow, as a reminder, we closed the sale of ZT System manufacturing business to Sanmina last week. The third quarter financial results of the ZT manufacturing business are reported separately in our financial statements as discontinued operations and are excluded from our non-GAAP financials.

Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. During the quarter, we generated $1.8 billion in cash from operating activities of continuing operations, and the free cash flow was a record of $1.5 billion. We returned $89 million to shareholders through share repurchases resulting in $1.3 billion in share repurchases for the first 3 quarters of 2025. Exiting the quarter, we have $9.4 billion authorization remaining under our share repurchase program. At the end of the quarter, cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment were $7.2 billion. Our total debt was $3.2 billion.

Now turning to our fourth quarter 2025 outlook. Please note that our fourth quarter outlook does not include any revenue from AMD Instinct MI308 shipment to China. For the fourth quarter of 2025, we expect revenue to be approximately $9.6 billion, plus or minus $300 million. The midpoint of our guidance represents approximately 25% year-over-year revenue growth driven by strong double-digit growth in our data center, and client and gaming segment and a return to growth in our embedded segment.

Sequentially, we expect revenue to grow by approximately 4% driven by double-digit growth in the data center segment with strong growth in server and continued ramp of our MI350 Series GPUs, a decline in our client and gaming segment with client revenue increasing and the gaming revenue down strong double digits, and double-digit growth in our embedded segment. In addition, we expect fourth quarter non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 54.5%, and we expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $2.8 billion. We expect net interest and other expenses to be a gain of approximately $37 million. We expect our non-GAAP effective tax rate to be 13%, and diluted share count is expected to be approximately 1.65 billion shares.

In closing, we executed very well, delivering record revenue for the first 3 quarters of the year. The strategic investment we are making position us well to capitalize on expanding AI opportunities across all our end markets, driving sustainable long-term revenue growth and earnings expansion for compelling shareholder value creation.

With that, I'll turn it back to Matt for the Q&A session.

Matthew Ramsay
Vice President of Financial Strategy & Investor Relations

Thank you very much, Jean. John, we can go ahead and poll the audience for questions now. Thank you.