Applied Digital Corporation (APLD) Q2 2026 Earnings Call January 7, 2026 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Wesley Cummins - Chairman, CEO, President, Secretary & Treasurer
Mohammad Saidal Mohmand - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Matt Glover - Gateway Group, Inc.
Nick Giles - B. Riley Securities, Inc., Research Division
Darren Aftahi - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Robert Brown - Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division
Mike Grondahl - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division
George Sutton - Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, Research Division
John Todaro - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Michael Donovan - Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and welcome to Applied Digital's Fiscal Second Quarter 2026 Conference Call. My name is Konstantin, and I will be your operator for today. Before this call, Applied Digital issued its financial results for the fiscal second quarter ended November 30, 2025, in a press release, a copy of which has been furnished in a report on a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's website.

Joining us on today's call are Applied Digital's Chairman and CEO, Wes Cummins, and CFO, Saidal Mohmand. Following the remarks, we will open the call for questions. Before we begin, Matt Glover from Gateway Group will make a brief introductory statement. Mr. Glover, you may begin.

Matt Glover
Gateway Group, Inc.

Thank you, operator. Hello, everyone, and welcome to Applied Digital's Fiscal Second Quarter 2026 Conference Call. Before management begins formal remarks, we'd like to remind everyone that some statements we're making today may be considered forward-looking statements under securities laws and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. As a result, we caution you that there are a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. More detailed risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our forward-looking statements, please see the disclosures in our earnings release and public filings made with the SEC. We disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update forward-looking statements to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made, except as required by law.

We also discuss non-GAAP financial metrics and encourage you to read our disclosures and the reconciliation tables to the applicable GAAP measures in our earnings release carefully as you consider these metrics. We refer you to our filings with the SEC for detailed disclosures and descriptions of our business as well as uncertainties and other variable circumstances, including, but not limited to, risks and uncertainties identified under the caption, Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

You may access Applied Digital's SEC filings for free by visiting the SEC website at www.sec.gov. I'd like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and will be made available for replay via a link available in the Investor Relations section of Applied Digital's website.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Applied Digital's Chairman and CEO, Wes Cummins. Wes?

Wesley Cummins
Chairman, CEO, President, Secretary & Treasurer

Thanks, Matt, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining our Fiscal Second Quarter 2026 Conference Call. I'd like to begin by thanking our employees for their dedication to delivering high-performance, sustainably engineered infrastructure for AI, cloud and blockchain workloads. Their execution and commitment continue to be foundational to our success.

This quarter marked several important milestones across our HPC data center and hosting business. Polaris Forge 1 reached ready-for-service, energizing 100 megawatts on schedule and completing the first of 3 contracted buildings. The remainder of this AI factory campus is expected to be completed by the end of 2027, and will host 400 megawatts for CoreWeave, representing approximately $11 billion in prospective lease revenue over approximately 15 years.

We also announced a roughly $5 billion 15-year lease with a U.S.-based investment-grade hyperscaler for 200 megawatts at Polaris Forge 2. This is a $3 billion project near Harwood, North Dakota that is advancing on schedule with initial capacity expected in 2026 and full build-out in 2027. Together, these agreements represent 600 megawatts of lease capacity and approximately $16 billion in prospective lease revenue across our North Dakota campuses.

Having secured two hyperscale leases in the region, inbound demand has increased meaningfully. As a result, we are in advanced discussions with another investment-grade hyperscaler across multiple regions, including additional locations in the Dakotas and select Southern U.S. markets. While there can be no assurance of future contracts, we believe we are well positioned to begin construction of additional campuses in the near term.

Hyperscalers are competing aggressively to secure sites that can support massive AI demand, responding to data highlighting significant shortfalls in global power capacity. Many are being asked to commit capital to 30-year power plant developments, meaning energy may take years to come online, it could cost more than anticipated. Beyond the immediate rush, AI infrastructure is ultimately a cost of capital business where every input matters. In this context, we chose the Dakotas because we believe they provide a durable competitive advantage with low cost of abundant energy, [ new ] climate, ample land for expansion of existing sites and potential for future large-scale super sites that could align with regional energy developments, making Applied Digital sites not only immediately valuable, but we believe also more efficient and cost-effective over the long term compared with other regions in the U.S. and globally.

Building on this advantage, we have significantly evolved our construction and design capabilities. Our current data center designs are modular and highly efficient, allowing us to run numerous concrete plants simultaneously and leverage prefabricated components delivered by 18-wheelers. The approach reduces construction timelines and lowers overall cost. We've expanded the footprint and flexibility of our buildings designed to allow for different GPU and ASIC chip architectures and networking infrastructure to support multipurpose AI use cases and traditional cloud workloads.

While AI is driving significant demand, cloud computing continues to grow and increasingly competes for data center capacity. Our facilities are purpose-built to support training, inference and traditional cloud workloads intended to give hyperscalers maximum flexibility over the life of the asset. Looking ahead, we expect to maintain a meaningful competitive advantage in the Dakotas and intend to announce additional locations in other advantaged regions.

With that, I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Saidal Mohmand, for a detailed review of our financials. Saidal?

Mohammad Saidal Mohmand
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Wes, and good afternoon, everyone. This quarter represents a major inflection point for Applied Digital. After two years of construction and over $1 billion invested in our first 100-megawatt data center, we have now begun to generate lease revenues. We expect lease revenues to ramp over the next quarter, and it's important to note that we currently have two different campuses under construction simultaneously representing 600 megawatts. These buildings are expected to come online over the course of calendar 2026 and 2027, where we anticipate meaningful revenue growth over the coming 18 to 24 months. This does not include any additional campuses currently under advanced discussions with customers, which would be layered into these numbers according to their respective design and build time lines.

From a high-level finance perspective, we have agreements in place with top-tier financial institutions that allow us to execute this repeatable and capital-efficient framework. The first step of this process is to draw on our development loan facility with Macquarie Equipment Capital, which allows us to fund pre-leased construction for new sites. Subsequent to the second, first quarter end, we made our first draw under this $100 million facility.

The second step, following a mutually agreed upon executed lease with an investment-grade hyperscaler is to access the Macquarie Asset Management's $5 billion preferred equity facility. To date, we have drawn $900 million from this facility to support our Polaris Forge 1 and 2 campuses. We expect a similar financial structure will be used going forward for future development projects. This multilayered financing framework allows Applied Digital to leverage third-party capital for a majority of the upfront investment, while retaining majority ownership of each site, providing financial flexibility and reducing reliance on public capital markets.

On the debt front this quarter, we completed a $2.35 billion private offering of our 9.25% senior secured notes due 2030 to finance the first 2 -- 2 of the 3 buildings at our Polaris Forge 1 site, supporting the core releases, allowing us to refinance existing debt. Note, project-level debt typically carries higher interest rates initially as it finances the riskier portion of development. But once the buildings are operational, our goal is to refinance at lower rates. Additionally, our team is actively exploring and working on options to reduce the cost of debt for the third building, ensuring we continue to optimize our capital structure.

Now let's turn to the quarter. Revenues for the fiscal second quarter of fiscal '26 were $126.6 million, up 250% from $36.2 million in the prior year. The increase is primarily due to a $73 million of revenue generated from tenant fit-out services associated with our HPC Hosting Business, along with $12 million of recognized revenue in connection with the commencement of the first CoreWeave lease at Polaris Forge 1, reflecting partial quarter lease revenue.

On a cash basis for the leases, revenues were approximately $8 million. The difference between cash received and the revenue recognized reflects ASC 842 lease accounting, which requires lease revenue to be recognized on a straight-line basis over 15 years. We will aim to provide clarity on this difference on an annual basis going forward.

Applied Digital's Data Center Hosting segment, which operates 286 megawatts of customer ASICs across two North Dakota facilities had an exceptionally strong quarter, contributing $41.6 million of revenue, up 15% compared to the prior year. This growth was primarily driven by increased capacity online across the company's hosting facilities. We are very pleased with this business, which generated roughly $16 million in segment operating profit in just one quarter on a $131 million asset base.

Cost of revenues in total were $100.6 million compared to $22.7 million in the prior quarter. Approximately $69.5 million of the increase in the cost of revenue was associated with the tenant fit-out services for our HPC Hosting Business, while the remaining increase was associated with our Data Center Hosting business and other expenses directly attributable to generating revenue.

SG&A was $57 million compared to $26 million. This increase was due to an increase of $23.8 million in stock-based comp due to accelerated vesting of certain employee stock awards, $4.7 million in professional service expenses primarily related to an increase in legal services and $1.2 million in personnel expense for employee costs and other costs attributable to supporting the growth of the business.

Interest expenses is $11.5 million compared to $2.9 million, while net loss was $31.2 million or $0.11 per share. On an adjusted basis, adjusted net income was a positive $100,000 or $0.00 per share.

Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter totaled $20.2 million. From a balance sheet perspective, Applied Digital is exceptionally well positioned. We ended with the second fiscal quarter with $2.3 billion in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash versus $2.6 billion in debt, most of which does not mature until 2030, and approximately $2.1 billion in total equity. Note, these figures do not include the $382.5 million in proceeds from financings completed subsequent to the quarter end.

Our goal is to maintain one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry throughout the majority of the construction phases, intentionally holding a robust liquidity position to preserve a strong credit profile while enabling additional investments in equipment and new sites, then reassessing as buildings come online as our cash flow increases.

With that, I'll turn over the call to Wes for closing remarks. Thank you.

Wesley Cummins
Chairman, CEO, President, Secretary & Treasurer

Thank you, Saidal. Applied Digital is executing in a market defined by extraordinary hyperscaler investment now exceeding $400 billion annually. With our first two hyperscalers under contract for 600 megawatts in additional sites in advanced discussions, we are well positioned to scale rapidly. We now expect to surpass our long-term goal of $1 billion in NOI within 5 years. The Dakota campuses are expected to provide a durable strategic advantage through low-cost energy, natural cooling and a supportive regulatory environment. We remain committed to responsible development, strong community partnerships and environmental stewardship.

We continue to invest ahead of the curve. This quarter, we led and invested $15 million in a $25 million funding round for Corintis, supporting advanced liquid cooling solutions for high-density AI workloads. We are also working with utilities and strategic partners, including Babcock & Wilcox Enterprises to explore ways to add power to the grid without increasing costs to our customers. These initiatives reinforce our leadership in next-generation data center design, responsible grid management and a long-term shareholder value creation. We plan to continue advancing our thought leadership at the forefront of data center technology and deepening our influence across the broader ecosystem.

I'm also proud to announce the launch of Applied Digital Cares, a community initiative funding brands that support education, health, innovation and local development in the regions where we operate. Through this initiative, we aim to improve the standard of living in these focused communities because of our success -- because our success depends on theirs.

Finally, as noted earlier, I want to expand on the Board's decision to spin out Applied Digital Cloud. We've entered a non-binding Letter of Intent to combine Applied Digital Cloud with EKSO Bionics to form ChronoScale, a dedicated GPU accelerated-compute platform for demanding AI workloads. This transition separates our cloud platform from our data center business intended to allow each to scale independently with greater strategic and capital flexibility. ChronoScale is set up to leverage [ the proven ] Applied Digital Cloud platform among the first to deploy NVIDIA H100 GPUs at scale. On an anticipated closing in the first half of 2026, Applied Digital is expected to own over 80% of ChronoScale. Today, the cloud business generates roughly -- generates over $60 million in trailing 12-month revenue with $313 million in assets. We believe spinning off our cloud business best positions us to serve the accelerated AI -- accelerating AI market while enhancing long-term shareholder value.

With that, operator, we'll open the call for questions.

