ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Jim Kavanagh - Vice President of Investor Relations
Christophe Fouquet - President, CEO and Chair of the Board of Management
R.J.M. Dassen - Executive VP, CFO & Member of the Management Board

Conference Call Participants

Christopher Muse - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Joseph Quatrochi - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Andrew Gardiner - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Alexander Duval - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Sreekrishnan Sankarnarayanan - TD Cowen, Research Division
Mehdi Hosseini - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Didier Scemama - BofA Securities, Research Division
Francois-Xavier Bouvignies - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Christopher Caso - Wolfe Research, LLC
Tammy Qiu - Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ASML 2025 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results Conference Call on January 28, 2026. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Jim Kavanagh. Please go ahead.

Jim Kavanagh
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator. Welcome, everyone. This is Jim Kavanagh, Head of Investor Relations at ASML. Joining me today on the call are ASML's CEO, Christophe Fouquet; and our CFO, Roger Dassen. The subject of today's call is ASML's 2025 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results. The length of this call will be 60 minutes, and questions will be taken in the order that they are received. This call is also being broadcast live over the Internet at www.asml.com. A transcript of management's opening remarks and a replay of the call will be available on our website shortly following the conclusion of this call.

Before we begin, I would like to caution listeners that comments made by management during this conference call will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve material risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of risk factors, I encourage you to review the safe harbor statement contained in today's press release and presentation found on our website at www.asml.com and in our ASML's annual report on Form 20-F and in other documents as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Christophe Fouquet for a brief introduction.

Christophe Fouquet
President, CEO and Chair of the Board of Management

Thank you, Jim. Welcome, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter and full year 2025 results conference call. Before we begin the Q&A session, Roger and I would like to provide an overview and some commentary on the fourth quarter results and full year 2025 results as well as provide some additional comments on the current business environment and on our future business outlook. Roger?

R.J.M. Dassen
Executive VP, CFO & Member of the Management Board

Thank you, Christophe, and welcome, everyone. I will first review the fourth quarter and full year 2025 financial accomplishments and then provide guidance for the first quarter of 2026. Let me start with our fourth quarter accomplishments. In fourth quarter of 2025, total net sales were EUR 9.7 billion, which is within our guidance. Net system sales were EUR 7.6 billion, which includes EUR 3.6 billion from EUV system sales, including 2 High NA systems, and EUR 4 billion from non-EUV system sales. Net system sales were driven by Logic at 70%, with the remaining 30% coming from Memory. Installed Base Management sales for the quarter came in at EUR 2.1 billion, as guided. Gross margin for the quarter was also within guidance at 52.2%.

On operating expenses, R&D expenses were slightly higher than expected at rounded EUR 1.3 billion mainly due to higher nonrecurring personnel costs and the recognition of a grant that shifted into 2026. SG&A expenses also came in higher than guided at EUR 375 million, driven mostly by higher mainly nonrecurring salary-related costs, the sale of receivables and pull-in of certain IT spending. The effective tax rate for Q4 was 18%. For the full year 2025, the annualized effective tax rate came in at 17.7%. Net income in Q4 was EUR 2.8 billion, representing 29.2% of total net sales, resulting in earnings per share of EUR 7.35.

Turning to the balance sheet. We ended the fourth quarter with cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at a level of EUR 13.3 billion. Our Q4 free cash flow was EUR 10.9 billion, which was significantly higher relative to the previous quarters of this year, with the majority of the cash coming in at the very end of the quarter.

Moving to the order book. Q4 net bookings came in at EUR 13.2 billion, split between EUR 7.4 billion of EUV systems and EUR 5.8 billion of non-EUV systems. Net bookings in the quarter were slightly weighted towards Memory with 56% of bookings and Logic accounting for the remaining 44%.

Turning now to the full year. Net sales came in at EUR 32.7 billion with a gross margin of 52.8%. EUV system sales realized from 48 systems, including High NA, were EUR 11.6 billion, which was 39% higher than 2024. Deep UV system sales decreased 6% year-over-year to EUR 12 billion. Our metrology and inspection system sales increased 28% from 2024 to EUR 825 million.

Looking at the market segments for 2025. Logic system revenue was EUR 16.1 billion, 22% higher than 2024. Memory system revenue was EUR 8.4 billion, 2% lower than 2024, and Installed Base Management sales were EUR 8.2 billion, 26% higher than 2024. We concluded 2025 with a backlog of around EUR 38.8 billion. In 2025, we continue to invest in innovation across our full product portfolio, increasing R&D spending to EUR 4.7 billion or about 14% of sales. SG&A increased to EUR 1.3 billion in 2025, which was about 4% of sales. Net income for the full year was EUR 9.6 billion, 29.4% of net sales, resulting in an earnings per share of EUR 24.73. 2025, we generated free cash flow of EUR 11 billion.

With that, I would like to turn to our expectations for the first quarter of 2026. We expect Q1 total net sales to be between EUR 8.2 billion and EUR 8.9 billion. We expect our Q1 Installed Base Management sales to be around EUR 2.4 billion. Gross margin for Q1 is expected to be between 51% and 53%. Expected R&D expenses for Q1 are around EUR 1.2 billion, and SG&A is expected to be around EUR 0.3 billion. For the full year 2026, we expect net sales to be between EUR 34 billion and EUR 39 billion, with a gross margin of between 51% and 53%.

Regarding our cash return to our shareholders in Q4, ASML second interim dividend over 2025 of EUR 1.60 per ordinary share. ASML intends to declare a total dividend for the year 2025 of EUR 7.50 per ordinary share, which is a 17% increase compared to 2024. An interim dividend of EUR 1.60 per ordinary share will be made payable on February 18, 2026. Recognizing this interim dividend and the 2 interim dividends of EUR 1.60 per ordinary share paid in 2025, this leads to a total dividend -- final dividend proposal to the Annual General Meeting of EUR 2.70 per ordinary share.

In Q4 2025, we purchased shares for a total amount of around EUR 1.7 billion. This program finished in December 2025 with a total of EUR 7.6 billion repurchased out of the up to EUR 12 billion program. We returned EUR 8.5 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share buybacks in 2025. ASML announced a new share buyback program effective today and to be executed by December 31, 2028. We intend to repurchase shares of an amount up to EUR 12 billion, of which we expect a total of up to EUR 2 million will be used to cover employee share plans. We intend to cancel the remainder of the shares repurchase.

With that, I would like to turn the call back over to Christophe.

Christophe Fouquet
President, CEO and Chair of the Board of Management

Thank you, Roger. As Roger has highlighted, we Finished the year with a very strong quarter with good financial results. The market outlook has improved notably over the last months, especially as related to the continued buildup of data centers and AI-related infrastructure. This buildup is now translated into additional capacity needs at our advanced logic and DRAM customers and, in turn, an increased demand across our product portfolio, especially in our EUV business.

Over the past quarters, we have seen a notable increase in acceleration of capacity expansion planning across a large majority of our customer base. In advanced logic, our foundry customers have become more positive on the long-term sustainability of demand on a number of fronts. AI accelerators are migrating from the 4-nanometer node to the more litho-intensive 3-nanometer node. At the same time, customers continue to ramp the 2-nanometer node in support of next-generation HPC and mobile application.

In Memory, our customers are reporting very strong demand for both HBM and DDR products, with supply remaining very tight through at least 2026 as they ramp both their 1B and 1C nodes in support of the demand. In addition, DRAM customers continue to adopt more EUV layers on those nodes. This is expected to continue on their future nodes as they migrate more multi-patterning Deep UV to single exposed EUV, resulting in an increase in litho intensity.

As a result of these dynamics, we see our customer in both segments increasing and accelerating capacity expansion plans to support the very strong demand they are seeing. We expect these investments to generate business for ASML in 2026 and beyond.

Starting first with EUV. We expect revenues to be up significantly this year as a result of the dynamics in both advanced logic and DRAM. In non-EUV, we expect revenues for 2026 to be similar to last year as our advanced logic and memory customer expand capacity. As part of the outlook for non-EUV, we expect the China region share in our total net sales in 2026 to be in line with our current system backlog, which is around 20%. We also expect our metrology and inspection businesses to grow significantly as customers increasingly invest in enhancing their process control strategy.

For Installed Base Management, we expect another year of revenue growth. This is primarily the result of increasing service revenue from our growing installed base of EUV systems and of our customer plans for performance upgrades to support their rapidly increasing capacity requirements.

Turning to technology. In EUV, we continue to make progress driving down the cost of technology on our customer most advanced processes. We ramped our NXE:3800E for 2025, and its productivity gains support further replacement of complex multi-patterning with single exposed EUV for multiple layers on current and future DRAM. We also expect both immersion and EUV litho intensity to increase as customers migrate from 6 F-square technology to 4 F-square architectures.

With regard to High NA, our customers are reporting good progress on their qualification of the technology for logic and DRAM applications in their R&D facilities. Intel announced last month the qualification and acceptance of their EXE:5200B system, which will be used in high-volume manufacturing for their leading-edge nodes. We expect more systems to be released to our customer in 2026, supporting their preparation for the insertion of High NA in high-volume manufacturing.

With the continued increase of 3D structure in advanced logic and memory, we see more adoption of our [ multi-e-beam ] inspection system to detect optically nonvisible yield-limiting defects. Our progress on system maturity and productivity supports further use of this multi-beam system in high-volume manufacturing on the most advanced nodes.

In summary, our product portfolio road map remains focused on supporting the road map requirements of our customers and driving our overall competitiveness. We look forward to sharing more performance data at the SPIE Advanced Lithography Conference in February. Looking longer term, the last few months have confirmed the positive impact of AI on customer demand for our advanced product and especially for our EUV system. As we shared during our Capital Market Day in November 2024, we see the end market dynamics supporting a shift in product mix towards more demand for our advanced lithography products and an increase in litho intensity. The combination of our strong productivity road map on Low NA and the introduction of High NA supports further cost of technology reduction. It also supports the conversion of more multi-patterning Deep UV to single EUV exposure especially on advanced DRAM nodes. In line with what we shared at the 2024 Capital Market Day, we expect a [ 2000 ] revenue opportunity between EUR 44 billion and EUR 60 billion with an expected gross margin between 56% and 60%.

With that, we will be happy to take your questions.

Jim Kavanagh
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Roger, and thank you, Christophe. Now the operator will instruct everyone momentarily on the protocol for the Q&A session. [Operator Instructions] Now operator, could we have your final instruction and then the first question, please?

