AutoZone, Inc. (AZO) Q1 2026 Earnings Call December 9, 2025 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Philip Daniele - CEO, President & Director
Jamere Jackson - Chief Financial Officer of Customer Satisfaction

Conference Call Participants

Bret Jordan - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Barath Rao - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Skylar Tennant - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Ariana Warden - Citigroup Inc. Exchange Research
Mark Jordan - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Michael Montani - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Yanjun Liu - BofA Securities, Research Division
Justin Kleber - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, everyone, and welcome to AutoZone's 2026 Q1 Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] At this time, the company would like to provide its forward-looking statement.

Unknown Executive

Before we begin, please note that today's call includes forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Please refer to this morning's press release and the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements. Today's call will also include certain non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures can be found in our press release.

Philip Daniele
CEO, President & Director

Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's 2026 First Quarter Conference Call. With me today are Jamere Jackson, Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Campbell, Vice President, Treasurer, Investor Relations and Tax. Regarding the first quarter, I hope you had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results. If not, the press release, along with slides complementing our comments today, are available on our website at www.autozone.com under the Investor Relations link. Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.

To start out this morning, I want to thank our more than 130,000 AutoZoners across the company for their commitment to delivering on our pledge to always put customers first. Our decision-making process starts with asking the question, what is right for the customer? We strive to deliver on our commitment of providing WOW! Customer Service, and it's our AutoZoners across our stores and supply chain who deliver on this commitment every day, driving our results and our continued success. To start this morning, I'll address our sales results and talk about our new store openings for the quarter. I'll discuss both domestic and international results and break our sales results down between traffic and ticket growth comparisons to address what inflation has meant to both our ticket growth and our sales growth.

I'll also address regional disparities where they exist. And finally, I'll address our outlook and how we expect the year to unfold. For the quarter, our total sales grew 8.2%, while earnings per share decreased 4.6%. Additionally, I want to point out that this year's gross margin, operating profit and earnings per share were negatively impacted by a noncash $98 million LIFO charge, which had a material impact on our margins and EPS. Excluding this LIFO charge, our EPS would have been up 8.9% versus last year's Q1. We also delivered a positive 4.7% total same-store sales on a constant currency basis with domestic same-store sales growth of 4.8%. Our domestic DIY same-store sales growth grew 1.5%, while our domestic commercial sales grew up 14.5% versus last year's Q1 and up sequentially from 12.5% on a 16-week basis in the fourth quarter of last year.

Our focus is on improving execution, expanding parts availability and improving the speed of delivery. We are pleased with our results thus far. International same-store sales were up 3.7% on a constant currency basis. Our unadjusted international comp was up 11.2%. This was the first quarter since Q3 '24, where FX rates were favorable to our operating profit and EPS. Jamere will provide more color for you on our foreign currency impact on our financial results for both this past quarter and the upcoming second quarter later on this call. With over 7,700 stores across 3 countries, our business is getting more global each day. We finished the quarter with 6,666 U.S. stores, 895 Mexico stores and 147 Brazil stores.

We opened 53 stores globally this past quarter versus 34 in last year's first quarter. This kind of first quarter growth is at near record for any first quarter store openings in our history and indicative of our commitment to accelerate our store growth. We are very excited about the pace of these openings, and we know that this pace will drive future earnings growth globally. Next, let me address our sales results in a little more detail. Coming into the quarter, we were optimistic that our improved execution would drive sales growth for both retail and commercial. More specifically, we felt the momentum we gained over the last 3 quarters with our domestic commercial sales would continue this quarter.

We are very pleased that our domestic commercial sales accelerated again this quarter to 14.5%. This marked an acceleration from our commercial sales growth on a 2-year and a 3-year basis. Additionally, the domestic retail comp performed well, up 1.5%, but slowed slightly from last quarter's 2.2%. Finally, our international constant currency comp was up 3.7% for the quarter and performed slightly better on a 2-year basis than last quarter's result. We are encouraged by our continued improved sales results and the way we finished the quarter gives us confidence in our sales outlook for the remainder of our fiscal year 2026.

Next, I'll discuss the quarter's sales cadence. Regarding our 4.8% quarterly domestic sales -- same-store sales, the cadence was 5.5% in our first 4 weeks, positive 3.5% in our second 4 weeks and positive 5.5% over the last 4-week period in the quarter. We attribute the weakness in the middle 4-week segment to weather in the month of October that was not as favorable as last year in a select group of markets. Last year, we experienced much colder weather in a subset of markets. And this year, that did not repeat, which resulted in fewer winter-related parts sales than normal. While it got colder in the last 4-week segment, it was not until November when we began to get the usual cold winter weather.

Also, in a subset of markets in the Southeast where hurricanes occurred last year, our sales were weaker than last year. Hurricanes drive sales after the storms and during the cleanup period. And without those storms, this year, our sales in some markets were lower. Let me make a few comments on our domestic DIY business. Regarding our plus 1.5% DIY comp for the quarter, we experienced a positive 2.1% in the first 4-week segment, a flat DIY comp in the second segment and a plus 2.3% comp during the third segment. Our merchandise categories performed as we would have expected, but less favorable weather comparisons in certain regions definitely impacted our results. More specifically, sales in the northern half of the country outperformed our markets in the southern half of the United States.

With regard to inflation's impact on DIY sales, we saw like-for-like same SKU inflation up approximately 4.8% for the quarter, the same with our DIY average ticket that was up 4.8%. Based on our inflation expectations, we continue to expect our average ticket to grow sequentially through the third fiscal quarter, which ends in May. During the fourth quarter, we will begin to lap the increases in inflation we saw in this past year's fourth quarter. We also saw DIY traffic down 3.4% as traffic was roughly -- down roughly 2x in the middle 4-week segment versus the first 4 weeks and the last 4 weeks due to the weather comparisons and positive impacts from hurricanes in those same markets.

We are encouraged by our most recent trends, and we expect our DIY business to remain resilient in this environment. Next, I will touch on our domestic commercial business. As I mentioned, our commercial sales were up 14.5% for the quarter. The first 4 weeks grew 15.2%. The second 4-week segment grew 13.8% and the third 4-week segment grew 14.6%. As with DIY, our commercial sales were impacted during the middle 4-week segment due to the weather comparisons to last year. Our commercial results have been boosted by our improved inventory, satellite store investments and availability, significant improvements in our Hub and Mega-Hub coverage and continued strength of our Duralast brand and execution on our initiatives to improve speed of delivery and customer service. These initiatives are delivering share gains and give us confidence as we move further into FY '26.

Year-over-year inflation on a like-for-like same SKU basis for our commercial business was up 6% and grew similarly to our average ticket growth of 6.1% Lastly, we are very pleased with the growth in our commercial transactions with traffic up 5.9% on a same-store basis as we continue to grow market share. Our future sales growth will be driven by share gains and an expectation that like-for-like retail SKU inflation will continue as we move forward. As I said earlier, we opened a total of 39 net domestic stores and 14 stores in our international markets, and we remain committed to more aggressively opening satellite stores, Hub and Mega-Hub stores. Hubs and Mega-Hubs comps results continue to grow faster than the balance of the chain, and we are going to continue to aggressively deploy these assets.

For FY '26, we expect to continue to open stores at an accelerated pace, and Jamere will share more on our new store development progress in a moment. Overall, we are encouraged with our sales performance this quarter. We believe we are positioned well for growth in FY '26, and we expect both DIY and commercial sales trends to remain solid. We will, as always, be transparent about what we are seeing and provide color on our markets and outlook as trends emerge. Now let me take a moment to discuss our international business. Across Mexico and Brazil, we now have 1,044 international stores. As I mentioned, our same-store sales grew 3.7% on a constant currency basis behind a softer macro environment in Mexico. While we are continuing to gain market share, the economy is experiencing slower growth.

As the economy improves, we expect our sales to reaccelerate as we continue to invest in our new stores and distribution centers. Today, we have almost 14% of our total store base outside of the U.S., and we expect this number to grow as we accelerate our international store openings. In summary, we have continued to invest capital in opening new stores, driving traffic and sales growth. While there will always be tailwinds and headwinds in any quarter's results, what has been consistent is our focus on delivering sustainable long-term results. We continue to invest in improving product assortments in stores and online and improving efficiency in our supply chain, which positions us well for future growth. We are investing both CapEx and operating expense to capitalize on these opportunities.

This year, we are investing nearly $1.6 billion in CapEx to drive our strategic growth priorities, and we expect to invest a similar amount next year. The majority of our investments will be in accelerated store growth, including Hubs and Mega-Hubs that place more inventory closer to our customers. We are also investing in 2 new distribution centers, one in Mexico and one in Brazil, all while continuing to invest in technology to improve customer service and our AutoZoner's ability to execute on our promise of WOW! Customer Service and delivering trustworthy advice. This is the right time to invest in our business as we believe industry demand will continue to remain strong, and we have the ability to grow market share. Now I'll turn the call over to Jamere Jackson.

Jamere Jackson
Chief Financial Officer of Customer Satisfaction

Thanks, Phil, and good morning, everyone. Our operating results remained strong for the quarter and were highlighted by solid top line revenue. Total sales were $4.6 billion and up 8.2% versus Q1 of last year. Our domestic same-store sales grew 4.8%, and our international comp was up 3.7% on a constant currency basis. Total company EBIT was down 6.8%, and our EPS was down 4.6%. As Phil stated earlier, excluding our noncash $98 million LIFO charge, EBIT would have grown 4.9% and EPS would have been up 8.9%. Foreign exchange rates positively impacted our results for the quarter. For Mexico, the peso strengthened just over 6% versus the U.S. dollar for the quarter, resulting in a $37 million tailwind to sales, an $11 million tailwind to EBIT and a $0.44 a share benefit to EPS versus the prior year.

We continue to be proud of our results as the efforts of our AutoZoners in our stores and distribution centers have enabled us to continue to grow our business. Let me take a few moments to elaborate on the specifics in our P&L for Q1. First, I'll provide a little more color on sales and our growth initiatives, starting with our domestic commercial business for the quarter. Our domestic DIFM sales were $1.3 billion, up 14.5%. For the quarter, our domestic commercial sales represented 32% of our domestic auto parts sales and 28% of our total company sales. Our average weekly sales per program were $17,500, up 10% versus last year. Our commercial acceleration initiatives are continuing to deliver strong results as we grow share by winning new business and increasing our share of wallet with existing customers.

We have a commercial program in approximately 93% of our domestic stores, which leverages our DIY infrastructure, and we're building our business with national, regional and local accounts. This quarter, we opened 84 net new programs, finishing with 6,182 total programs. We plan to aggressively pursue growing our share of wallet with existing customers and adding new customers. Mega-Hub stores remain a key component of our current and future commercial growth. We opened 4 Mega-Hubs and finished the quarter with 137 Mega-Hub stores. We expect to open at least 30 Mega-Hub locations over the fiscal year, and our pipeline is exceptionally strong.

As a reminder, our Mega-Hubs typically carry over 100,000 SKUs and drive a tremendous sales lift inside the store box as well as serve as an expanded assortment source for other stores. The expansion of coverage and parts availability continues to deliver a meaningful sales lift to both our commercial and DIY business. These larger stores give our customers access to thousands of additional parts across the market. While I mentioned a moment ago that our average commercial weekly sales per program grew 10%, the 137 Mega-Hubs continue to drive growth at an even faster clip. We continue to target having approximately 300 Mega-Hubs at full build-out. Our customers are excited by our commercial offering as we deploy more parts in local markets closer to the customers while improving our service levels. On the domestic retail side of our business, our DIY comp was up 1.5% for the quarter.

Our DIY share has remained strong behind our growth initiatives, and we're well positioned for future growth. Importantly, the market is experiencing a growing and aging car park and a challenging new and used car sales market for our customers, which continues to provide a tailwind for our business. These dynamics, ticket growth, growth initiatives and macro car park tailwinds, we believe, will continue to drive a resilient DIY business environment for the remainder of FY '26. Now I'll say a few words regarding our international business. We continue to be pleased with the progress we're making in our international markets. During the quarter, we opened 12 new stores in Mexico to finish with 895 stores and 2 new stores in Brazil, ending with 149 stores. Our same-store sales grew 3.7% on a constant currency basis and a positive 11.2% on an unadjusted basis.

While sales growth has slowed over the last few quarters in Mexico due to slower economic growth in the country, we have continued to grow our share, and we're well positioned when the economy improves. We remain committed to investing in international expansion, and we're pleased with our results in these markets as we accelerate the store opening pace. As we look ahead, we're bullish on international being an attractive and meaningful contributor to AutoZone's future sales and operating profit growth. Now let me spend a few moments on the rest of the P&L and gross margins. For the quarter, our gross margin was 51%, down 203 basis points versus last year. This quarter, we had a $98 million LIFO charge or 212 basis point unfavorable LIFO comparison to last year. Excluding the LIFO comparison, we had a 9 basis point improvement to gross margin driven by margin actions, which offset a significant rate headwind from the shift to a faster-growing commercial business.

We anticipate continued benefits from merchandise margins next quarter that should help offset the rate headwind from accelerated commercial growth. As I mentioned, we had a $98 million LIFO charge in Q1. We're planning a LIFO charge of approximately $60 million for each of the next 3 quarters as we're continuing to experience higher costs due to tariffs that impact our LIFO layers. Moving on to operating expenses. Our expenses were up 10.4% versus Q1 last year as SG&A as a percentage of sales delevered 69 basis points, driven by investments to support our growth initiatives. On a per store basis, our SG&A was up 5.8% compared to last quarter's 4.4% increase. The difference between per store growth and total SG&A growth is the accelerated new store count that we have driven over the last 12 months. We expect to continue to increase our new store opening pace through the end of fiscal 2028 when we reach a total of 500 stores open annually.

In the spirit of transparency and to give investors the opportunity to ingest expectations as we grow store count faster than we have in recent history, we will give more color on SG&A growth and store counts. For Q2, we're assuming 65 to 70 store openings globally versus 45 last year. And for the full year, we expect to open 350 to 360 stores versus 304 net new stores opened in FY '25. We've been purposefully investing in SG&A in order to capitalize on opportunities to grow our business now and in the near future. These investments will also pay dividends in customer experience, speed of delivery and productivity, all of which will help us grow market share. For Q2, we expect SG&A to grow similar to the first quarter as the impact of new stores disproportionately impacts payroll, depreciation and occupancy costs

We remain committed to being disciplined with our SG&A growth. And as the accelerated new stores mature, we will manage expenses in line with sales growth over time. Moving to the rest of the P&L. EBIT for the quarter was $784 million, down 6.8% versus the prior year. As I previously mentioned, a noncash LIFO charge reduced our EBIT by $98 million. Adjusting for the unfavorable LIFO comparison, our EBIT would have been up 4.9% versus the prior year. Interest expense for the quarter was $106 million, down 1.3% from a year ago as our debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $8.6 billion versus $9 billion a year ago.

We're planning interest in the $114 million range for the second quarter of FY '26 versus $109 million last year. For the quarter, our tax rate was 21.7%, down from last year's first quarter of 23%, driven primarily by higher stock option expense benefit. This quarter's tax rate benefited 186 basis points from stock options exercised, while last year, it benefited 72 basis points. For the second quarter of FY '25, we suggest investors model us at approximately 22.5%. Moving to net income and EPS. Net income for the quarter was $531 million, down 6% versus last year. Our diluted share count of 17.1 million was 1.5% lower than last year's first quarter. The combination of lower net income and lower share count drove earnings per share for the quarter to $31.04, down 4.6% versus last year's Q1.

As a reminder, LIFO drove our EPS down $4.39 a share. Now let me talk about our free cash flow. For the quarter, we generated $630 million in free cash flow versus $565 million in Q1 last year. We expect to continue being an incredibly strong cash flow generator going forward, and we remain committed to returning meaningful amounts of cash to our shareholders. Regarding our balance sheet, our liquidity position remains very strong, and our leverage ratio finished at 2.5x EBITDAR. Our inventory per store was up 9.1% versus Q1 last year, while total inventory increased 13.9% over the same period last year, driven by new stores, additional inventory investment to support our growth initiatives and inflation.

Net inventory, defined as merchandise inventories less accounts payable on a per store basis was a negative $145,000 versus negative $166,000 last year and negative $131,000 last quarter. As a result, accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 115.6% versus last year's Q1 of 119.5%. Lastly, I'll spend a moment on capital allocation and our share repurchase program. We repurchased $431 million of AutoZone stock in the quarter. And at quarter end, we had $1.7 billion remaining under our share buyback authorization. Our ongoing strong earnings, balance sheet and powerful free cash generation allows us to return a significant amount of cash to our shareholders through our buyback program. We have bought back over 100% of the then outstanding shares of stock since our buyback inception in 1998, while investing in our existing assets and growing our business.

We remain committed to this disciplined capital allocation approach that will enable us to invest in the business and return meaningful amounts of cash to shareholders. To wrap up, we remain committed to driving long-term shareholder value by investing in our growth initiatives, driving robust earnings and cash and returning excess cash to our shareholders. Our strategy continues to work as we remain focused on gaining market share and improving our competitive positioning in a disciplined way. As we look forward to the rest of FY '26, we're bullish on our growth prospects behind a resilient domestic DIY business, a faster-growing domestic commercial business and an international business that is continuing to grow share in a meaningful way.

We continue to have tremendous confidence in our ability to drive significant and ongoing value for our shareholders. Before handing the call back to Phil, I want to remind you that we report revenue comps on a constant currency basis to reflect our operating performance. We generally don't take on transactional risk, so our results primarily reflect the translation impact for reporting purposes. As mentioned earlier, in the quarter, foreign currency resulted in a tailwind to revenue and EPS. If yesterday's spot rates held for Q2, then we expect an approximate $57 million benefit to revenue, an $18 million benefit to EBIT and a $0.77 a share benefit to EPS. And lastly, in Q2, we expect LIFO to reduce EBIT by approximately $60 million, impact our gross margin rate by approximately 140 basis points and our EPS by approximately $2.70 a share. And now I'll turn it back to Phil.

Philip Daniele
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Jamere. We are excited to start the calendar of 2026. We have a lot to accomplish this fiscal year. We are committed to flawless execution and wisely spending our capital to drive growth and efficiency. We feel we are well positioned to grow sales across our domestic and our international store base with both our retail and our DIY customers. We expect to manage our gross margins effectively and grow our operating expense in line with an accelerated store opening assumption. We continue to put our capital to work where it will have the biggest impact on our sales and long-term profitability as our stores, our distribution centers and investing in technology to build a superior customer experience.

The top focus areas for 2026 will be growing share in our domestic commercial business and continuing our momentum in international. We are excited about what we can accomplish in the second quarter. but we understand that we cannot take things for granted. We must remain laser-focused on customer service, flawless execution and gaining share in every market in which we operate. Fiscal 2026 top operating priorities will continue to be based on improving execution and delivering WOW! Customer Service.

We will continue to invest in the following strategic projects: remaining focused on driving DIY or do-it-yourself and commercial sales growth, which we are doing in a meaningful way, ramping up our domestic and international store growth, drive our new and Mega-Hub openings and focus on optimizing our new distribution centers and our supply chain capabilities. We are excited about what we can accomplish in this new year, and our AutoZoners are well prepared to deliver on our commitments. We believe AutoZone's best days are ahead of us. Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.