AZZ Inc. (AZZ) Q3 2026 Earnings Call January 8, 2026 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Thomas Ferguson - President, CEO & Director
Jason Crawford - Chief Financial Officer
David Nark - Chief Marketing, Communications & Investor Relations Officer

Conference Call Participants

Phillip Kupper - Three Part Advisors, LLC
Ghansham Panjabi - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Nick Giles - B. Riley Securities, Inc., Research Division
Eric Boyes - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Adam Thalhimer - Thompson, Davis & Company, Inc., Research Division
Daniel Rizzo - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Mark La Reichman - NOBLE Capital Markets, Inc., Research Division
Gerard Sweeney - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the AZZ Inc. quarter 3 Full Year Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Phillip Kupper with Three Part Advisors. Please go ahead.

Phillip Kupper
Three Part Advisors, LLC

Good morning. Thank you for joining us today to review AZZ's third quarter fiscal 2026 results for the period ended November 30, 2025.

Joining the call today are Tom Ferguson, President and Chief Executive Officer; Jason Crawford, Chief Financial Officer; and David Nark, Chief Marketing Communications and Investor Relations Officer. After today's prepared remarks, we will open the call for questions. Please note the live webcast for today's call can be found at www.azz.com/investor-events.

Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion today will include forward-looking statements made in accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Either nature, forward-looking statements are uncertain and outside the company's control. Except for actual results, AZZ's comments containing forward-looking statements may involve risks and uncertainties, some of which are detailed from time to time in documents filed by AZZ with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the latest annual report on Form 10-K. These statements are not guarantees of future performance Therefore, undue reliance should not be placed upon them. Actual results could differ materially from these expectations.

In addition, today's call we'll discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which should be considered supplemental, not as a substitute for GAAP financial measures. We refer shareholders to our reconciliations from GAAP to non-GAAP measures contained in today's earnings press release.

I would now like to turn the call over to Tom Fergus.

Thomas Ferguson
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Phillip. Thank you all for joining us today, and Happy New Year. After I provide a brief overview of our results and an update on what we are seeing across our segments, Jason will cover AZZ's detailed financial results, and Dave will discuss industry dynamics across our end markets.

First, let me share a couple of important milestones. We achieved record sales of $426 million in the third quarter, surpassing any quarter in our company's history. And we had a record high trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA of $358 million. These financial results reflect our unwavering commitment to execute on our disciplined strategy that focuses on driving growth and creating shareholder value.

This quarter, we maintained our cash dividend of $0.20 per share, marking 63 consecutive quarters of consistently returning capital to our shareholders through cash dividends.

Now turning to our third quarter results. We grew total sales by 5.5% and generated a robust adjusted EBITDA of more than $91 million. Metal Coatings delivered an exceptional quarter, with sales rising 15.7% year-over-year, fueled by higher volumes and strong demand from infrastructure projects. Segment EBITDA margins of 30.3% reflect an increased mix of larger projects in electrical, solar and transmission and distribution work, which tend to be more price competitive.

Precoat Metals delivered sequential improvement over the prior quarter, though sales were down 1.8% year-over-year. This was primarily the result of continued softness in construction, HVAC and transportation markets.

Meanwhile, food and beverage container demand reached new record highs, driven by new customer acquisitions and market share gains. This trend further underscores the accelerated shift from plastics to aluminum, which aligns with the ongoing ramp-up at our new Washington, Missouri facility.

Overall, the increase in end market demand was driven by growth in infrastructure modernization, energy transition and industrial reshoring along with data center construction, integrated LNG power generation and renewable energy projects. These market sectors depend on galvanized steel and coated materials, areas where AZZ offers unmatched scale, coating solutions expertise, and exclusive technologies to deliver exceptional value to our customers. Our diversified portfolio positions us uniquely to seize project opportunities across multiple end markets. Dave will share more details on this in a moment.

We continue to emphasize AZZ's proprietary ERP platform as a core differentiator within our business model. Our Digital Galvanizing System and coil zone platforms deepen customer relationships and reinforce our competitive moat while providing durable returns on invested capital. Operationally, the systems are margin enhancing through higher throughput, improved yields, better zinc utilization, improved administrative and production efficiencies and increased customer connectivity.

Importantly, these benefits are achieved with limited incremental capital, making our technology investments highly accretive to ROIC, while also reducing waste and supporting more sustainable operations. Subsequent to quarter end, AVAIL completed the sale of a majority interest in its Welding Solutions Business, which they refer to as WSI. The transaction creates value for shareholders and further simplifies AVAIL's portfolio. Our joint venture partner remains focused on completing additional divestitures with only the Rig-A-Lite and a small portion of international WSI business left.

With that, I will turn it over to Jason.

Jason Crawford
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Tom. For the third quarter, we reported record sales of $425.7 million, representing a 5.5% increase from $403.7 million in the prior year period. The growth was led by our Metal Coatings segment, where sales increased 15.7% year-over-year, driven by higher volumes and infrastructure-related spending across our largest verticals.

Although Precoat Metals sales improved sequentially from last quarter, sales were down 1.8% from the same quarter of the prior year, due to an overall weaker end market environment. Driven by lower volumes in construction, HVAC and Transportation, partially offset by residential reroofing and stronger food and beverage container sales. Within Precoat Metals, excess imported prepainted metal has worked its way through the market. And with tariffs likely to remain in place, we anticipate Precoat Metals will start to benefit from the replacement of prepainting metal imports.

The company's third quarter gross profit was $101.9 million, or 23.9% of sales, compared to $97.8 million or 24.2% of sales in the same quarter of the prior year. Selling, General and Administrative expenses totaled $32.5 million in the third quarter, or 7.6% of sales. This compares favorably to last year's third quarter, which was $39.2 million, or 9.7% of sales, which included costs associated with severance and one-off employee retirement expenses.

Operating income for the quarter was $69.5 million, or 16.3% of sales, a 180 basis point improvement compared with $58.5 million, or 14.5% of sales, in the prior year third quarter, due to operational improvements this year and nonrecurring items included in last year's third quarter results. For the third quarter, we reported a net loss in equity and earnings of $1.4 million. This was after recording $0.6 million post-closing loss adjustment on the previously announced divestiture of the Electrical Products business.

Losses in the quarter from our AVAIL joint venture are primarily due to the excess overhead costs resulting from this divestiture. Compared to the third quarter of last year, equity in earnings were $8.6 million lower. With the sale of WSI in December 31, 2025, and progress in resizing AVAIL's overhead costs, we are forecasting equity and earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries to be 0 for the fourth quarter of this year.

Interest expense for the third quarter was $12.2 million, representing a $7 million improvement from the prior year. Driven by a combination of actions, including debt paydown, debt repricing and the introduction of the receivable securitization facility. The current quarter income tax expense was $14.5 million, reflecting an effective tax rate of 26.1%, compared to 26.5% tax rate in the prior year's third quarter.

We do not expect the One Big Beautiful Bill Act to have any material impact on our income tax expense or effective tax rate for the year. However, it will reduce our cash taxes paid in 2026. Reported net income for the third quarter was $41.1 million, compared to $33.6 million for the third quarter of the prior year.

AZZ reported adjusted net income of $46 million, which excludes the amortization of intangible assets of $5.8 million and the AVAIL equity loss adjustment of $0.6 million, our adjusted diluted EPS of $1.52. This compares favorably to the prior year's adjusted net income of $41.9 million and adjusted diluted EPS of $1.39, an increase of 9.4% compared to the third quarter of the prior year. Third quarter adjusted EBITDA was $91.2 million, or 21.4% of sales, compared to $90.7 million, or 22.5% of sales, for the same period last year.

Turning to our financial position and balance sheet. Our strategy for deploying cash flow includes investing in high-return organic and inorganic initiatives, paying down debt, returning capital to our shareholders through our quarterly cash dividend and buying back our stock. During the third quarter, we generated cash flow from operations of $79.7 million. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $18.5 million, which included a combination of sustaining and growth capital. Stock repurchases for the third quarter were $20 million, at an average price of $99.28 per share, while cash taxes were higher in the quarter associated with the previously mentioned AVAIL joint venture gain offset somewhat by the impact of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

We ended the quarter with a net debt position of $534.7 million and $337.1 million in available borrowing capacity, consisting of $336.4 million in the company's revolving credit facility, and $0.6 million in cash and cash equivalents. After paying down $35 million of debt in the quarter, our credit agreement net leverage ratio was 1.6x, which is within our previously announced target range of 1.5 to 2.5x. And finally, as Tom mentioned, over the same period last year, we increased and paid our quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share, up from $0.17 per share.

With that, I'll turn the call over to David.

David Nark
Chief Marketing, Communications & Investor Relations Officer

Thank you, Jason. Good morning, everyone. The U.S. infrastructure investment cycle, along with an intense wave of investments in generative AI and machine learning technologies, is in the early stages of driving demand for high-power density and advanced cooling systems.

These hyperscale data centers require coatings that extend well beyond just structural steel and transmission poles. For example, these projects require specialized coatings for critical applications, including corrosion protection, aesthetics, functionality, fire safety and regulatory compliance.

Massive data center investments are typically paired by necessity with co-located power generation and grid upgrades, which are multiyear construction projects. We expect these private and public colocation investments will reinforce a positive long-term secular trend benefiting both AZZ Metal Coatings and AZZ Precoat Metals. We also expect solar projects to remain strong as many of our solar customers have backlogs that extend well past the expiration of the current tax credits. These projects are focused on large-scale sites, including data centers being developed commercially that provide power for continuous high load requirements. Excluding data centers, nonresidential construction remains subdued in the quarter primarily driven by interest rate and lingering tariff-related uncertainty while residential construction was also soft.

Despite this, we saw positive trends in the metal residential reroofing market as it continues to gradually take share from the asphalt roofing market. This helped offset a slower-than-normal storm season as no named hurricanes made landfall in the Continental United States in the current year. Looking ahead, most forecasts point to flat to regionally selective modest growth in construction through calendar year 2026.

Finally, as we progress through our fourth quarter, it's worth noting that last year's fourth quarter was impacted by unusually wet and cold weather. Prolonged temperatures below 40 degrees, and gas curtailment actions by utility providers, led to a record number of lost production days in the prior year quarter, particularly in Texas. Therefore, we anticipate our fourth quarter may present somewhat easier year-over-year comparisons to last year's December through February period.

With that, I will turn the call back over to Tom.

Thomas Ferguson
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Dave. Turning to our fiscal 2026 guidance update. We have narrowed the forecast ranges for total sales, EBITDA and adjusted EPS. We anticipate that our sales will be in the range of $1.625 billion to $1.7 billion. Adjusted EBITDA will be in the range of $360 million to $380 million. And adjusted diluted earnings per share will be in the range of $5.90 to $6.20. And as Dave mentioned, we believe that last year's fourth quarter weather-related impacts will be less severe. Our strong financial and market positions enable us to capitalize on strategic growth opportunities while executing on our broader capital allocation plans. We expect to release fiscal 2027 guidance in the next few weeks for our new year starting March 1.

Consolidation in the industry continues to present compelling opportunities, and we are currently evaluating several strategic tuck-in acquisitions that align with our playbook and expand our market reach in Metal Coatings and Precoat Metals. We continue to take a disciplined approach to M&A, targeting opportunities to drive sustainable growth and generate meaningful value for shareholders.

Finally, I want to sincerely thank our AZZ team for their unwavering dedication, disciplined focus and the pride and passion they bring every day to deliver exceptional quality, service and value creation to our customers and other stakeholders.

Now operator, we would like to open the call for questions.

