The Boeing Company (BA) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 10:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Eric Hill - Vice President of Investor Relations
Robert Ortberg - President, CEO & Director
Jesus Malave - Executive VP of Finance & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Myles Walton - Wolfe Research, LLC
John Godyn - Citigroup Inc. Exchange Research
Douglas Harned - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Peter Arment - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Seth Seifman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Ronald Epstein - BofA Securities, Research Division
Robert Stallard - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
Noah Poponak - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Gavin Parsons - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. Good day, everyone, and welcome to The Boeing Company's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's call is being recorded. The management discussion and slide presentation, plus the analyst question-and-answer session are being broadcast live over the Internet. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I'm turning the call over to Mr. Eric Hill, Vice President of Investor Relations for opening remarks and introductions. Mr. Hill, please go ahead.

Eric Hill
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good morning. Welcome to Boeing's quarterly earnings call. With me today are Kelly Ortberg, Boeing's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jay Malave, Boeing's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

This quarter's webcast, earnings release and presentation, which include relevant disclosures and non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website.

Today's discussion includes forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties including the ones described in our SEC filings. As always, we will leave time at the end of the call for analyst questions.

With that, I will turn the call over to Kelly Ortberg.

Robert Ortberg
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Eric. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining in today's call. As we start this year, we've set the foundation for our turnaround with stronger performance and record-breaking backlogs across our businesses. We haven't fully turned the corner, but we're making real progress in getting back to the Boeing everyone expects of us.

When we spoke a year ago, we were just in the early stages of our 4-point plan: To stabilize our business; execute on our development programs; change our culture; and build a new future for Boeing. Today, our customers and stakeholders are seeing the difference in how we work together to uphold our commitments and deliver high-quality products and services. Before discussing the work ahead of us and our plan to meet the 2026 goals, I'll first touch on some important accomplishments in the quarter and the year that position us well for moving forward.

In 2025, we methodically increased commercial production guided by our safety and quality plan. This enabled our team to deliver the most commercial airplane since 2018. We delivered 600 airplanes and won more than 1,100 commercial orders for the year, making this one of our highest order totals ever, as our portfolio continues to win in the market.

Earlier this month, I joined Alaska Airlines as they announced their largest order ever. This was a clear reminder that our customers place their trust in us with every order, and we must keep earning that trust by delivering safe, high-quality airplanes on time. To do this, the fundamental changes we've made this past year will serve as a base for continuous improvement as we look to increase commercial production.

For example, we've simplified more than 5,100 work instruction documents. These are the instructions that the mechanics and inspectors use each day to do their jobs. These type of activities reduce complexity, support consistent performance and strengthen factory health.

On 737, production is stabilizing at 42 airplanes per month and we're continuing to see improvement in the program as its on-time delivery performance has improved threefold compared with the previous year. We also continued to get positive customer feedback on the quality of the airplane. As we look to move to higher rates, we use the same process as previous rate breaks, monitoring factory health and following our safety and quality plan. For production above 47, we'll add our new North Line in Everett, where facility and tooling investments are now complete, and we're executing a deliberate staffing plan to support production there.

In Charleston, the 787 program continues to progress well and is stabilizing at rate 8. I'm pleased with the operational metrics we're seeing in the factory. As an example, during the 2025, the program reduced average rework hours nearly 30% and going forward, as with the 737, we use the same disciplined processes, including monitoring our KPIs to assess readiness for the next planned rate increase to 10 airplanes per month, which is targeted for later this year. As previously announced, we're also investing in the future, breaking ground on our factory expansion to support higher rates and meet the exceptional demand for the 787.

We also made progress in our defense business and scored a transformational win to build the U.S. Air Force sixth generation fighter. Over the past year, we've also focused on reducing the risk profile of our BDS development programs by driving improved performance and leveraging active management to deliver better outcomes for our customer.

In the quarter, our defense business also hit several key milestones. The U.S. Navy's MQ-25 successfully completed its inaugural engine run, moving it closer to first flight. We also delivered the first operational T-7A Red Hawk to the U.S. Air Force at Joint Base San Antonio-Randolph. These milestones are just a few where our programs are progressing and meeting our customer commitment. Importantly, we also ratified a new 5-year labor agreement with our IAM representative workforce in St. Louis during this past quarter. Our team there is back to work, focusing on delivering and supporting our customers.

Before the year-end, we took another important step forward, supporting our production stability by completing the acquisition of Spirit AeroSystems. Bringing together our companies, reinforces our efforts to improve safety and quality throughout our factories, operations and supply chain. There's a lot of work ahead of us with an integration of this magnitude, and we have thoughtful, detailed plans in place to help enable a smooth transition for our new teammates while maintaining continuity for our customers and suppliers.

We also successfully completed the $10.6 billion Jeppesen sale, solidifying our balance sheet while retaining essential digital capabilities for our customers. With the streamlined portfolio, our service business is well positioned to support our global commercial and defense customers.

BGS secured Boeing's largest ever commercial component services deal and our Government Services business received its highest orders ever in 2025, including a contract with the U.S. government in the quarter to support C-17 modernization. BGS also launched a new unified e-commerce platform, which brings together Boeing's distribution portfolios of products and services into one streamlined digital destination, simplifying how customers and suppliers connect, transact and grow with the company.

Across commercial, defense and services, we've built a strong foundation for the year ahead. And while I'm proud of what we accomplished in 2025, we also know expectations are rising, and we must continue to elevate the performance that we've demonstrated over this past 12 months.

As important, I am pleased with the progress we're making on culture that will ensure these improvements become a critical part of our success and further strengthen trust with our stakeholders. I remain confident in our team and our plan to deliver on the opportunities and address the challenges in front of us in the year ahead, particularly on our development programs. Past delays to the certification time lines for the new 737 MAX derivative and the 777-9 have been challenging, but we are making steady progress in performing than our revised schedule.

The 737-10 recently gained Type Inspection Authority 2 or TIA2 to expand flight testing. This final TIA opens up the majority of the certification flight testing which is focused on validating the airplane's avionics, propulsion, auto flight capabilities and other airplane function. In addition, as we previously shared, we have a final set of design changes to permanently address the engine anti-ice issues on the 737-7 and -10.

We're following the lead of the FAA as we work to certify the suite of design changes. We still anticipate certification for both the 737-7 and -10 in 2026.

On 777-9 in the quarter, we received approval for TIA3 and continue to perform certification flight test. TIA3 is a major phase of testing focused on avionics, environmental control systems and the auxiliary power unit. And as I've said before, overall, the aircraft and engine continued to perform well.

We have identified a potential durability issue during a recent inspection on the 777X engine, and we're working with GE to better understand that issue and finalize root cause and corrective action. Importantly, as we work through this issue, we continue our certification flight testing, and we don't expect this to impact our delivery in 2027. Demand for the airplane remains strong, and we remain confident that the 777X will be the next flagship airplane for our global customers.

Moving now to KC-46 Tanker. As we came through our quarterly process, we revised cost estimates for elements, including the production support and supply chain, which Jay will cover in more detail. While it's disappointing to recognize another impact on this program, we are seeing encouraging operational performance trends, which, if sustained, should enable us to meet our customer delivery commitments and set us up well for the next tanker order beyond the current program of record.

You've heard me say you're never done until you're done on any of the development programs, but across defense and commercial, we are making progress, clear-eyed on the work remaining and committed to delivering better performance in the year ahead.

As I finish my prepared remarks this morning, I want to thank all of our employees, including our newest teammates from the former Spirit AeroSystems. From our frontline mechanics to our engineers and our management team we're all committed to continuous improvement guided by our culture with a sharp focus on safety, quality and performance to deliver for our customers and other stakeholders.

We know there's more work ahead in 2026, but the strong foundation we're building by stabilizing the business, executing these development programs, building our future and changing our culture will position us to put our recovery behind us and restore Boeing to the company we all know it can be.

With that, I'll now turn it over to Jay to discuss the results in more detail.

Jesus Malave
Executive VP of Finance & CFO

Thanks, Kelly, and good morning, everyone. Let's start with the total company financial performance for the quarter. Revenue was $23.9 billion, the highest quarterly total reported since 2018. Revenue was up 57%, primarily driven by improved operational performance across the business, including higher commercial deliveries and defense volume. Core earnings per share of $9.92 primarily reflects the $11.83 gain associated with closing the Digital Aviation Solutions divestiture. Free cash flow was positive $375 million, slightly higher than the expectations I shared last month, driven by higher commercial deliveries and working capital that improved compared to both the prior year and the prior quarter.

Turning to BCA on the next page. BCA delivered 160 airplanes in the quarter and 600 for the year, the highest annual total since 2018. Revenue of $11.4 billion and operating margin of negative 5.6% both improved materially and primarily reflect better operational performance and higher deliveries compared to last year's results that were impacted by the work stoppage. Results also include impacts associated with acquiring Spirit AeroSystems, which impacted segment margins by roughly 1.5 points in the quarter.

BCA booked 336 net orders in the quarter, including 105, 737-10 and 5, 787-9 airplanes for Alaska Airlines and 65, 777-9 airplanes for Emirates. Importantly, BCA booked 1,173 net orders for the year and backlog ended at a record-setting $567 billion that includes over 6,100 airplanes with the 737 and 787 both sold firm into the next decade.

Now let's click down to the commercial programs. Starting with the 737 program, BCA delivered 117 airplanes in the quarter and 447 for the year, in line with expectations shared last month. The factory increased the production rate to 42 per month in the quarter and the program is on course to increase production to 47 later this year. The year ended with 1, 737-8 built prior to 2023, down 5 from the prior quarter. and we expect to deliver this final shadow factory airplane in the first quarter. On the -7 and -10, inventory levels were stable at approximately 35 airplanes.

As Kelly said, we received approval from the FAA in the quarter to begin the final phase of 737-10 certification flight testing and continue to partner closely on a certification path for these programs including the engine anti-ice solution set.

On the 787, we delivered 27 airplanes in the quarter and 88% for the year. During the quarter, the program completed a successful capstone review and is continuing to make good progress, stabilizing at the new production rate of 8 per month. The year ended with approximately 5 airplanes in inventory that were built prior to 2023, down 5 from last quarter. We still expect to deliver the remaining airplanes in 2026 which is aligned with our customers' fleet plans. Importantly, the 787 recorded 395 net orders in 2025, the program's highest annual order total which highlights the market-leading capabilities that the Dreamliner will continue to deliver to our customers for decades to come.

Finally, on the 777X, as Kelly mentioned, we continue to make progress on 777-9 certification flight testing. 777X inventory spend in 2025 finished at nearly $3.5 billion, in line with expectations. 777X booked 202 orders in 2025, the second highest annual total since the program's launch, underscoring the trust that our customers have placed in this game-changing widebody family as well as our team that's building it.

All right, let's shift over to BDS on the next page. BDS delivered 37 aircraft in the quarter, and revenue grew 37% to $7.4 billion on improved operational performance and higher volume. Operating margin of negative 6.8% improved significantly compared to last year and also reflects the better operating performance across the business. This improvement was tempered by $565 million loss on the KC-46A tanker, which I'll address further in a moment.

BDS booked $15 million in orders during the quarter, including awards for 15, KC-46A Tankers from the U.S. Air Force and 96 Apaches from Poland both contributing to backlog that grew to a record $85 billion. Overall, we continue to make progress stabilizing our fixed price development programs, even with the cost updates on a few programs this quarter, including the tanker adjustment.

As Kelly mentioned, the tanker adjustment was driven by higher BCA production support and other allocated costs in the Everett facility as well as higher estimated supply chain costs, including Spirit. The added production support costs include keeping higher levels of quality and engineering support in the factory, which are a key part of driving improvement.

For example, as compared to the first half of the year, we saw average factory rework levels decrease by 20% in the fourth quarter. So while these investments are starting to evidence progress, we need to sustain them for longer than previously planned to promote stability.

Across these fixed-price development programs, we continue to see benefits from our active management approach in retiring risk and developing win-win opportunities with our customers. We remain focused on delivering these important capabilities and achieved several important milestones in the quarter.

In addition to the highlights Kelly referenced on T-7A and MQ-25, we also partnered with NASA to modify the commercial crew contract to better align our long-term objectives. The remainder of the portfolio continues to benefit from increased demand supported by the global threat environment.

Performance on these programs continue to reflect the operational improvement that began earlier this year. For example, on the PAC-3 seeker program, over the course of 2025, the team was able to increase output by 33%, enabled by prior investments in capacity and a focus on lean to drive more efficient production. Overall, the defense portfolio is well positioned for the future, as evidenced by our record backlog, and we still expect the business to return to historical performance levels as we continue to drive execution and transition to new contracts with tighter underwriting standards.

Moving to Global Services on the next page. BGS continued to perform well, again delivering strong financial results in the quarter. Revenue was up 2% to $5.2 billion, primarily reflecting improved government volume. Operating margin was abnormally high due to the Digital Aviation Solutions gain. Adjusting the fourth quarter of 2025 and 2024, for Digital Aviation Solutions, BGS adjusted revenue of $5.1 billion grew 6% and adjusted operating margin was 18.6%. On the same basis, both our commercial and government businesses again delivered double-digit margins in the quarter.

BGS is driving a keen focus on continuous improvement. For example, on the C-17 Sustainment Program, the team achieved an 18% flow reduction over the course of 2025 as a result of nearly 200 discrete projects generated by the team, a key enabler of improved customer satisfaction. BGS also received $10 billion of orders in the quarter, and an annual high of $28 billion in 2025, and the business ended the year with a record backlog of $30 billion.

Shifting over to cash and debt. Cash and marketable securities grew to $29.4 billion, primarily due to $10.6 billion in proceeds associated with closing the Digital Aviation Solutions transaction, partially offset by debt repayment of $3 billion associated with the acquisition of Spirit AeroSystems. The debt balance ended at $54.1 billion, slightly up from last quarter, primarily reflecting the retained Spirit debt. The company also maintains access to $10 billion of revolving credit facilities, all of which remain undrawn. And we remain committed to strengthening the balance sheet and supporting our investment-grade rating.

Okay. Let's shift to full year performance on the next page. Full year revenue was up 34% to $89.5 billion, primarily reflecting the improved operational performance across the business. Core earnings per share of $1.19 was up significantly primarily driven by the $12.47 gain on the Digital Aviation Solutions sale and improved performance. Excluding the impact of the gain, EPS was up $9.10 year-over-year.

Free cash flow was $1.9 billion usage for the year. This was slightly better than expectations shared last month and improved significantly year-on-year, primarily driven by higher commercial deliveries and improved working capital. Our improving cash flow performance in 2025 provides a solid setup to deliver positive free cash flow for the full year in 2026.

Let me provide some additional context on our free cash flow outlook. As we continue turning the corner in 2026, we expect positive free cash flow of $1 billion to $3 billion, aligned with the expectations I shared last month. For clarity, this outlook contemplates an unfavorable impact of roughly $1 billion in 2026 associated with incorporating Spirit. Consistent with the profile we have discussed previously, cash flow is expected to grow year-over-year primarily on higher commercial deliveries, better performance at BDS as that business continues to stabilize and continued steady growth at BGS.

This outlook continues to assume significant capital expenditures for future products and growth, particularly in St. Louis and Charleston. CapEx ramped up over the second half as we expected with nearly $3 billion invested in the business in 2025. These higher investment levels will continue into 2026, and we expect to spend closer to $4 billion this year, including the incorporation of Spirit.

Within 2026, we expect first quarter free cash flow will be a usage similar to first quarter of 2025, driven by normal seasonality. We expect the first half of 2026 to be a use of cash with the second half turning positive and accelerating sequentially. As we have discussed, there are a number of impacts to 2026 free cash flow that we expect to be temporary in nature and improve over time.

Let me add a bit of color on each category and highlight the actions required to work through them. As I just covered, we expect 2026 free cash flow to be between $1 billion and $3 billion. Part of where we end up in that range may be influenced by the realized impact of these issues. The most significant impacts are related to the delayed certification and first delivery on the 777X program, as well as the prior delivery delays on the 737 and 787 programs.

On 777X, regarding net cash burn. With first delivery planned for 2027, our production system expenditures will be much higher than the predelivery payments we expect. PDPs for 777X are lower than they otherwise would be, given customers have been paying into a schedule that previously assumed first delivery in 2026. 2026 is planned to be a higher use than 2025 but we expect the net cash use to improve over the next few years before turning positive in 2029. Our focus here remains on progressing through flight testing with the FAA.

Additionally, and just as importantly, we are making sure the production and delivery system is ready to ramp up to include working through built airplanes that will undergo a systematic change in corporation program.

Regarding the 737 and 787, there are 2 issues both driven by previous delivery delays. The first is customer considerations and the second is excess advances. To be clear, customer considerations for prior delays are not diminishing the pricing levels we are applying to new business. Indeed, we are seeking to better manage delay exposure in new contracts with tighter underwriting standards. We expect the impact of these items to improve over the next few years and our path to resolve the impacts of both customer considerations and excess advances is all about production stability and continuous improvement in on-time delivery for our BCA customers.

Partially offsetting these negative impacts on 737 and 787 is the plan to methodically work down selected excess part inventory and complete the final deliveries of previously built 737s and 787s. As we have said, with 737 moving to higher rates, we will address excess inventory on a commodity-by-commodity basis, in order to preserve stability across the supply chain and production system.

The next category of legacy issues we have discussed is the cash impact of running off prior BDS charges. Since 2022, there have been significant charges across the 5 fixed price development programs. We expect sequential improvement from 2025 to 2026 and gradual improvements thereafter. Obviously, this is predicated on successfully completing these programs without taking additional charges and leveraging the active management playbook to continue to derisk these programs.

As a tanker charge this quarter highlights, there remains risk on these programs even if the envelope of risk has been significantly reduced over the last year. Rounding it out, we have the in-year impact of the expected DOJ payment sliding from 2025 to 2026. In addition, to the 2-year spike in CapEx in 2026 and 2027, supporting growth in a stable production system, our focus as a leadership team will be on closely managing these investments to drive budget and schedule performance.

Adjusting for these impacts would result in high single-digits 2026 free cash flow and highlights the strong underlying cash generation potential of our business. Accordingly, we continue to believe the $10 billion free cash flow mark is very attainable, including impacts of the Spirit acquisition, which aligns with my remarks last month.

Okay, summing it all up. A strong foundation was set in 2025, and we're focused on elevating our performance in 2026 and delivering on the long-term potential of this business.

With that, let's open up the call for questions.

