Bank of America Corporation (BAC) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 14, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Lee McEntire - Head of Investor Relations & Local Markets Organization
Brian Moynihan - Chairman & CEO
Alastair Borthwick - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Betsy Graseck - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Kenneth Usdin - Bernstein Autonomous LLP
Michael Mayo - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
John McDonald - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Matthew O'Connor - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
L. Erika Penala - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
James Mitchell - Seaport Research Partners
Christopher McGratty - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Glenn Schorr - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Steven Chubak - Wolfe Research, LLC
Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Saul Martinez - HSBC Global Investment Research

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome, everyone joining today's Bank of America earnings announcement. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

It is now my pleasure to turn the meeting over to Lee McEntire. Please go ahead.

Lee McEntire
Head of Investor Relations & Local Markets Organization

Thank you, Leo. Good morning. Thank you for joining us to review our fourth quarter results. During the quarter, we elected to change the accounting method related to our tax-related equity investments in order to better align our financial statement presentation with the economic and financial impact of those investments.

As a result, we filed an 8-K on January 6 and a related mini supplemental package recasting the numbers for the quarters of 2024 and 2025 and the full year of '23 and '24. The primary impact of the accounting change was a reclassification between the income statement line items in our income statement, which had an insignificant impact on net income. Our discussion today is based on those recast numbers.

As usual, our earnings release documents are available on the Investor Relations section of the bankofamerica.com website. Those documents include the earnings presentation that we will make reference to during the call. Brian Moynihan will make some brief comments before turning the call over to Alastair Borthwick, our CFO, to discuss more of the details in the quarter.

Let me remind you that we may make forward-looking statements and refer to non-GAAP financial measures during the call. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause our actual results to materially differ from expectations are detailed in our earnings materials and SEC filings available on our website. Information about non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliations to U.S. GAAP, can also be found in our earnings materials and are available on our website.

With that, Brian, I'll pass it over to you.

Brian Moynihan
Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Lee, and good morning, and thank you for joining us. This morning, Bank of America reported net income of $7.6 billion for the fourth quarter. That is up 12% from the fourth quarter of 2024. Our EPS was $0.98 per share. That's an increase of 18% from the fourth quarter of '24. We delivered 7% year-over-year revenue growth. This was led by a 10% improvement in net interest income, up to $15.9 billion on an FTE basis. For net interest income, we have delivered each quarter what we laid out across the year and finished a bit stronger than we expected. We grew average loans 8%. We grew average deposits 3%, we delivered 330 basis points of operating leverage in quarter 4 through continued disciplined expense management. Alastair will take you through the details of the quarter. But first, I want to highlight a few things about 2025 to close the year out. I'm working off of Slide 2 in the earnings presentation.

Our fourth quarter topped off a strong performance by my teammates at Bank of America for 2025. We delivered on our commitments to shareholders across the year with solid growth across revenue, earnings and returns. We drove operating leverage and continued robust investments in people, brand, technology in both our physical and digital networks. Those results reflect the power of our diversified business model and our commitment to drive responsible growth.

Some highlights of 2025, you can see here, revenue was a little over $113 billion, was up 7% year-over-year. We generated 250 basis points of operating leverage for the year. Asset quality was strong and net charge-offs improved from 2024. We grew net income year-over-year by 13%. In addition, we grew EPS year-over-year to $3.81 or by 19%. We also increased our profitability and returns during the year. Return on tangible common equity improved 128 basis points. Our return on assets improved to 89 basis points. Our results and prudent balance sheet management allowed us to distribute 41% more capital back to shareholders, more than $30 billion. We grew loans 8%, and we grew deposits 3%. Loans outpaced the industry and average deposits now have grown for the 10th consecutive quarter.

Our focus on all the markets we serve, whether they're domestic or international, has allowed us to grow our client balances at a faster pace than the industry. Dean described how we do this in the U.S. at our Investor Day, and we will cover it later in the program.

As you look to Slide 3, we've also highlighted some organic growth highlights for the year and the quarter. We grew net new consumer checking accounts by 680,000 during the year, and that while maintaining a strong average balance of $9,000 plus. This extended our consecutive quarterly net growth to 28 or 7 years straight.

We crossed over $6.5 trillion in client balances of investments, deposits and loans across Wealth and Consumer Banking. Our consumer investment totals reached $600 billion. Similarly, our workplace benefits totals, i.e., 401(k) balances and related balances crossed over $600 billion also. It's worth noting that $28 billion of our year-over-year loan growth came through our Wealth Management clients.

Global Wealth and Investment Management showed improved nominal profit growth, stronger pretax margin improvement and continue to draw net new assets within the combined consumer of $100 billion during the year.

In Global Banking, average deposits increased $71 billion, up 13%. We saw treasury service fees increased 13% over '24, and ending loans grew across each line of business year-over-year, good core customer organic growth driving that. Investment banking saw good activity. For the full year, our investment banking fees were the highest they've been since going back to 2020 and the outsized pandemic period recovery. They were 7% higher than the prior year.

Fees generated in the second half of 2025 were 25% greater than the first half. What does this show? It showed good momentum by our team. It also showed that our corporate commercial clients settled in during the year after tax policy became clear, tariffs became more understood, and they look forward and receive the benefits of deregulation.

Global Markets under Jimmy's leadership saw continued growth in sales and trading with its 15th consecutive quarter of improvement and drove a record year of nearly $21 billion in sales and trading revenue. In addition to these stats, I commend you to review Slides 21, 23 and 25. Those highlight the continued progress of digital deployment and activation statistics for each of our businesses. You should note there the impact of Zelle and the continued users growth and also note the impact of Erica, our AI agent and its use both across our businesses and with our teammates.

A couple of high-level comments of what we see in the economy. It was a pretty good decent environment as we move through year 2025. Consumer spending grew 5% -- at $4.5 trillion grew 5% over the 2024 levels. Account balances in the consumer business for that broad base of the U.S. consumer were stable through the year. Delinquencies and charge-offs improved in 2025 consumer credit. Unemployment in the market remains stable, and the equity market appreciation benefit those consumers or investors in our Merrill Edge products or in our 401(k) platforms. This strong consumer health bodes well for the continued improvement in growth in 2026.

When you go to our corporate commercial customers, again, as the tax law settled in, the tariffs appeared to be manageable and deregulation kicked in. They had a pretty good year and good profits, including good credit quality and good money movement activity as we move through the year as they participate in the world economy. Our world-class research team has the global growth rate for GDP at 3.4% in 2026 and U.S. at 2.6%.

Risks remain out there. They always do, but we're encouraged and constructive on the head -- a year ahead. So I'll turn it over to Alastair to cover the quarter.

Alastair Borthwick
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Brian. I'll start using Slide 4. And as Brian noted, the fourth quarter was a strong quarter for us with 7% year-over-year revenue growth and good operating leverage producing $7.6 billion in net income or $0.98 in earnings per share. Our EPS grew 18% compared to the fourth quarter of '24.

Net interest income of $15.9 billion on a fully taxable equivalent basis was strong and a little better than expected, and we saw good momentum from market-based fees that complemented the NII growth. Of the $28.4 billion in total revenue, $10.4 billion came from sales and trading, investment banking and asset management fees. And those are three of the more highly compensable market-facing areas. It's these areas that grew revenue 10% year-over-year in the aggregate.

On expense, the teams have shown good discipline across the businesses as we held headcount flat across the year despite the volume growth of clients and activity. Most of the year-over-year expense growth was a result of revenue-related growth in markets and wealth-based activities I just described and our continued investments in the franchise.

We saw productivity improvements through AI and digitalization more generally, and those enabled us to add client-facing associates as we eliminated work and roles in our operational support areas. This year, we brought another 2,000 college graduates into the company, and we remain an employer of choice with progressive benefit programs for our employees. And even with those additions, we managed to hold our headcount flat for the year through good management.

Provision and net charge-offs declined year-over-year. That's for a second straight quarter, driven by continued stabilization around credit card and lower losses in commercial real estate. The net charge-off ratio fell to 44 basis points and is down 10 basis points year-over-year. And lastly, we reduced our average diluted share count by about 300 million shares or 4% from the fourth quarter of '24.

Slide 5 highlights the various earnings points that Brian, and I have covered to this point. So let's transfer to a discussion of the balance sheet using Slide 6, where you see total assets ended the quarter at $3.4 trillion, a little change from Q3 as securities and cash reductions were replaced with loan growth. Deposits grew $17 billion from Q3, and we use those deposits to continue to reduce wholesale funding as part of the plan we've discussed previously to intentionally lower balances, and drive a more efficient balance sheet. Average global liquidity sources of $975 billion remain very strong. Shareholders' equity of $303 billion was up less than $1 billion as earnings and a modest increase in OCI was mostly offset by capital return to shareholders.

In the quarter, we returned $8.4 billion of capital back to shareholders with $2.1 billion in common dividends paid, and $6.3 billion of shares repurchased, $1 billion increase in share repurchase from Q3 reflects increased earnings over the past 6 months and some reduction in excess capital. Tangible book value per share of $28.73 rose 9% from the fourth quarter of '24.

Turning to regulatory capital. Our CET1 level decreased modestly to $201 billion, driven by a $2.1 billion capital reduction from making the tax equity investment accounting change in the period, and we were not required to restate prior period regulatory capital. That capital reduction reflects the timing of equity and profitability in those investment deals and comes back into our capital over the next several years as those deals wind down. That accounted for roughly 12 basis points of CET1 reduction in the quarter, again, that we'll get back over time.

Risk-weighted assets rose $22 billion from Q3, driven by loan growth. Our CET1 ratio then declined from 11.6% to 11.4%, and it remains well above our 10% regulatory required minimum. Our supplemental leverage ratio was 5.7% versus a minimum requirement of 5% as of December 31 and 3.75% under the new rule, which we are adopting starting in 2026. This leaves ample capacity for balance sheet growth and our $467 billion of TLAC, means our TLAC ratio remained comfortably above our requirements.

On Slide 11 (sic) [ 7 ], we show a trend of average deposits and the consecutive growth across those periods. Average deposits were up nearly 3% from the fourth quarter of '24, driven largely by commercial client activity. Global Banking grew average deposit $74 billion or 13% compared to fourth quarter '24. Our global capabilities, innovative solutions and our relationship managers continue to offer clients value and access to our award-winning digital platform, CashPro.

Consumer Banking reported its third consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth and low- and non-interest checking was up $9 billion or 2%. Importantly, ending deposits improved sequentially in every segment. The team also showed continued discipline on pricing, while achieving that growth, overall rate paid on total deposits of 163 basis points, declined 15 basis points from Q3, reflecting lower rates and disciplined actions in our Global Banking and Wealth Management businesses.

Global Banking and Wealth Management rate paid both declined 28 basis points from Q3. The rate paid on the roughly $945 billion of consumer deposits fell 3 basis points to 55 basis points in Q4 and remains low driven by the operating nature of that account base and that client base.

Let's turn to loans by looking at average balances on Slide 8. Loans in Q4 of $1.17 trillion improved $90 billion or 8% year-over-year, driven by 12% commercial loan growth. Consumer loans grew at a slower 4% year-over-year pace and importantly were up across every loan category of card, mortgage, auto and home equity. For the fifth quarter in a row, every business segment recorded higher average loans on a year-over-year basis.

While commercial loan growth has been driven by our Global Markets Group, we've also seen year-over-year growth of 3% in Global Banking and strong custom lending growth of $18 billion year-over-year in Wealth Management as affluent clients borrowed for investments in assets like hospitality, sports, yachts, arts and business. In addition, Small Business saw its 12th straight quarter of year-over-year lending growth.

Let's turn our focus to NII on Slide 9, where on a GAAP non-FTE basis, NII in Q4 was $15.8 billion. And on a fully taxable equivalent basis, NII was $15.9 billion. And as I said earlier, that's up 10% from the fourth quarter of '24. On a fully taxable equivalent basis, NII grew $1.4 billion year-over-year, and $528 million over the third quarter. Our growth was driven by several factors: First, we saw good core NII performance from loan and deposit growth and disciplined pricing; second, we benefited from asset repricing as higher-yielding loan growth, replaced loan and security maturities and paydowns; third, client activity in Global Markets drove more of the sales and trading growth through NII than fees this quarter compared to Q3. That was about $100 million more of a shift in global markets activity to NII from MMSA than we had originally anticipated. And lastly, we had a small benefit from an average Fed fund rate, which primarily impact our liabilities dropping more than the way average SOFR rates behaved on variable rate assets, so we had a slight benefit there.

Our net interest yield, NIY, improved 7 basis points from the third quarter to 208 basis points, reflecting the growth in NII, while the earning balance remained stable as higher-yielding loan balances replaced lower-yielding securities. And as I said earlier, higher deposits allowed us to reduce wholesale funding, while cash balances declined. Regarding interest rate sensitivity, on a dynamic deposit basis, we provide a 12-month change in NII for an instantaneous shift in the curve. That means interest rates would have to move instantaneously lower by another 100 basis points more than the two expected cuts contemplated in the curve. On that basis, a 100 basis point decline would decrease NII growth over the next 12 months by $2 billion. And if rates went up 100 basis points, NII growth would benefit additionally by approximately $700 million.

With regard to a forward view of NII, let me give you a few thoughts. At Investor Day in November, we indicated our expectation that we would see 5% to 7% growth in net interest income in 2026 compared to 2025, and that's still our belief today based on the latest interest rate curve, which includes two rate cuts in 2026.

To reiterate our expectation from Investor Day, we expect good core NII performance from loan and deposit growth that will additionally benefit from sizable fixed asset repricing and cash flow swap repricing to drive the 5% to 7% NII improvement. During 2026, we expect roughly $12 billion to $15 billion in combined mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans to roll off quarterly, and those will be replaced with new assets at 150 to 200 basis points higher in yield or they'll allow us to pay down expensive short-term debt.

For Q1 NII expectations I would use Q4 as a base after excluding about $100 million or so for the shift in Global Markets client activity that I referenced, that is likely to be offset in MMSA. So simply a change in geography that's revenue neutral. I'd also note, we have 2 less days of interest in Q1 than Q4. And of course, we had a 25 basis point rate cut in December. Still we expect Q1 NII will grow roughly 7% from Q1 '25 based on the assumptions on Slide 18, in line with our full year guidance.

Okay. So let's turn to expense, and we'll use Slide 10 for our discussion. This quarter, we reported $17.4 billion in expense, up a little less than 4% year-over-year. When combined with our 7% revenue growth, this good expense management allowed us to generate more than 300 basis points of operating leverage, and that aligns to our target for the medium-term operating leverage range that we conveyed at Investor Day. The increase in expense was mainly driven by incentives tied to revenue growth and higher brokerage, clearing and exchange costs, or BCE (sic) [ BC&E ] costs, from trading activity. Those BC&E costs reflect client activity shifting toward higher growth and higher transaction cost overseas markets. Now these costs are the ones that are generally reimbursed by the client, so they're included in our revenue and essentially offset one another.

If we isolate change in expense for the incentives tied to Wealth Management, and remember, that reflects a 13% year-over-year improvement in asset management fees. And we isolate the BC&E costs that supported a 10% increase in sales and trading revenue. Then combined, they represented roughly 2% of our expense growth for the year and they came with good revenue. Beyond that, productivity improvements from AI and digitalization continue to help offset higher wages, benefits and technology investments.

Headcount remains our key driver of expense from compensation and benefits to real estate and technology. And we manage this closely, not only in total numbers, but also in organizational structure aiming to strike the right balance of managers and teammates. Since the end of 2023, we've operated within a tight range of 213,000 employees. This year, we hired about 17,000 new teammates just to replace departures from what was a very low attrition rate. And every time someone leaves, we take the opportunity to evaluate whether the role needs to be replaced.

Compared to the third quarter noninterest expense was up about $100 million, driven by technology investments and Wealth Management revenue-related costs. That was partially offset by a $200 million net benefit from the combined impact of the reduction of the FDIC special assessment accrual and some other settlements that modestly increased litigation expense.

Looking ahead, our focus remains on delivering operating leverage for shareholders. We expect to generate about 200 basis points of operating leverage in 2026. Those expectations include a constructive fee environment that complements our expected NII growth. We've seen encouraging momentum in asset management fees, investment banking and sales and trading, and we look for that to continue. And importantly, if revenue comes in below our expectations, then obviously, revenue-related expense will be lower.

As for Q1, we typically see seasonal strength in sales and trading activity and elevated payroll tax expense. Combined with the absence of the FDIC benefit we saw in the fourth quarter and combined with ongoing productivity improvements, we expect Q1 expenses to be about 4% higher than Q1 of 2025. And even with that, we still expect to deliver operating leverage.

Let's now move to credit and turn to Slide 11. And where you can see asset quality remains sound with small improvements in several key indicators. It's not a great deal to cover here. Our net charge-offs were $1.3 billion, down about $80 million from the third quarter and driven by lower losses in commercial real estate. Total net charge-off ratio this quarter was 44 basis points, down 3 basis points from the third quarter and down 10 basis points from Q4 '24.

Provision expense in the quarter was $1.3 billion and mostly matched net charge-offs. Focusing on total net charge-offs looking forward in the near term, we expect continued stability in total net charge-offs, given the mostly benign consumer delinquency trends and low unemployment data, the continued stability of C&I and reductions in our commercial real estate exposures.

On Slide 12, in addition to the consumer delinquency statistics, note the modest changes in other stats for both our consumer and commercial portfolios.

Let's now turn to the performance across our lines of business, beginning with Consumer Banking on Slide 13. Our Consumer Bank had a strong year. And for the full year, the team generated $44 billion in revenue and delivered $12 billion in net income. Net income grew 14% from 2024, and we earned a 28% return on allocated capital. In Q4, Consumer Banking delivered strong results, generating $11.2 billion in revenue, up 5% versus the fourth quarter of last year and $3.3 billion in net income up 17%. So a really strong finish to the year.

These results reflect the value of our deposit franchise and underscore both the breadth of our platform and the success of our organic growth strategy and digital banking capabilities. Our focus on client experience and investments in both physical and digital capabilities, combined with more investment in product innovation and rewards drove the strong results.

Business was also managed well for shareholders as we grew expense less than 2%, allowing us to improve our efficiency ratio to 51% and deliver nearly 350 basis points of operating leverage. This 2% expense growth reflects our continued investments in our brand, highlighted by our minimum wage increase to $25 earlier this year and incentives for more production. Digitalization and early utilization of AI helped offset some of the investments.

Consumer investment balances grew $81 billion from Q4 '24 to nearly $600 billion, supported by $19 billion in full year client flows and market appreciation. Average balance per investment account at $147,000 is up 12% from last year. And this investment platform serves as a great catch basin for first-time investors and for more experienced investors looking to manage some element of their own money. As mentioned, consumer net charge-offs improved again on a year-over-year basis, and we continue to see stability in asset quality metrics. Credit card net charge ratio of 3.4% improved nearly 40 basis points from Q4 and improved linked quarter.

Finally, as shown in the appendix, this is Slide 21. You can see strong digital adoption and the engagement that all continued, and the customer experience scores remain strong, reflecting the impact of our ongoing investments in digital.

Turning to Wealth Management on Slide 14. And you can see this is a business that has strong momentum right now, and we've improved growth as we work towards the medium-term targets laid out at Investor Day. For the full year, revenue of $25 billion grew 9% compared to 2024, and net income grew 10% to nearly $4.7 billion. Over the past 3 quarters, net income has gone from $1 billion in Q2 to nearly $1.3 billion in Q3 and to $1.4 billion in Q4. Return on allocated capital went from 20% in Q2, up to 28% in Q4.

And the pretax margin has climbed back into the high 20% range as we ended the year. Underneath all that, client balances grew $500 billion across the year to $4.8 trillion and that included strong ending loan growth of nearly $30 billion or 13%.

Within that, AUM flows were $82 billion and total flows of 80 -- sorry, $96 billion. When coupled with the flows of consumer investments, we saw $115 billion of wealth flows for the firm this year. And for the year, Merrill and the Private Bank added 21,000 net new relationships with the average size of new relationships continuing to grow across both businesses.

Importantly, we're not just growing relationships, we're deepening them as we added 114,000 new bank accounts this year. And finally, I'd highlight the continued digital momentum as shown on Slide 23, where new accounts have increasingly opened digitally, underscoring the effectiveness of our digital investments and the evolving preferences of our clients.

On Slide 15, you see the results for Global Banking. The team had a good year and generated $7.8 billion in earnings and that represented about 25% of the company's overall net income. Year-over-year earnings were down a modest 2% as a result of interest rate cuts impacting NII from the variable rate assets in the business. The team grew average deposits $71 billion or 13% and grew loans $12 billion. This included the addition of roughly 500 new clients in middle market banking and more than 1,000 in business banking that chose Bank of America as their financial services provider in 2025.

For the fourth quarter, Global Banking delivered net income of $2.1 billion down 3% year-over-year with a 6% improvement in fees overcoming the NII pressure. Business remains very efficient with a 50% efficiency ratio and we earned 16% return on allocated capital in Q4.

We generated $1.67 billion in investment banking fees, up modestly over Q4 '24, and we maintained our #3 position for the full year. And as Brian, and I said earlier, investment banking fees showed good momentum, given all the regulatory and tariff announcements around the globe uncertainty settling in, and our pipeline remains strong. Noninterest expense grew 6% compared to last year as we position the firm for the future with continued investments in technology and bankers.

Switching to Global Markets on Slide 16. I'll focus my comments on results that exclude DVA as we typically do. The Global Markets team produced a record year of record -- sorry, a record year of revenue, improved earnings and solid returns. We generated $24 billion in revenue for the year, and that exceeded last year's revenue by 10%. Earnings of $6.1 billion for the year were up 8% and the business generated a 13% return on allocated capital. It's worth noting this is the 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year net income growth.

Q4 Global Markets generated net income just shy of $1 billion, up 5% from Q4 '24. Revenue, excluding DVA, grew 10% year-over-year driven by strong sales and trading performance. And focusing on sales and trading, revenue ex-DVA, rose 10% year-over-year to $4.5 billion. And it was equities trading that led the improvement, growing 23%, supported by increased activity in Asia. And that brought higher revenue, it also brought higher revenue -- sorry, higher cost in the form of transaction costs as the clients still reimburse us for those fees. FICC revenue grew 1% driven by improved performance in macro rates and FX products offsetting a modest decline in credit products. Loan growth continues to benefit from opportunities tied to highly collateralized pools of high-quality assets and clients value our expertise and liquidity in delivering these solutions.

On Slide 17, All Other shows a loss of $132 million in Q4, with very little to cover here. And as we wrap up, I would just note Q4 effective tax rate was 21%, and it was 19% for the full year. For 2026, we expect an effective tax rate of roughly 20%. And then finally, I'd just note on Slide 18, we provided a summary of the forward-looking guidance that we discussed today.

So I'll stop there. Thank you. And with that, we'll jump into Q&A.

