Bloom Energy Corporation (BE) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 28, 2025 5:00 PM EDT

Company Participants

Michael Tierney
K. Sridhar - Co-Founder, CEO & Chairman
Maciej Kurzymski - Chief Accounting Officer & Interim CFO

Conference Call Participants

David Arcaro - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Christopher Dendrinos - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Manav Gupta - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Nicholas Amicucci - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Ben Kallo - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Mark W. Strouse - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Michael Blum - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Ameet Thakkar - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Colin Rusch - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Maheep Mandloi - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Sherif Elmaghrabi - BTIG, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is Colby and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome you to the Bloom Energy Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Results. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. I'd like to turn the call over to your host today to Michael Tierney, Vice President, Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

Michael Tierney

Thank you, and good afternoon, everybody. Thank you for joining us for Bloom Energy's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call.

To supplement this conference call, we furnished our third quarter 2025 earnings press release with the SEC on Form 8-K and have posted it along with supplemental financial information that we will reference throughout this call to our Investor Relations website.

During this conference call, both in our prepared remarks and in answers to your questions, we may make forward-looking statements that represent our expectations regarding future events and our future financial performance. These include statements about the company's business results, products, new markets, strategy, financial position, liquidity and full year outlook for 2025 or 2026.

These statements are predictions based upon our expectations, estimates and assumptions. However, as these statements deal with future events, they are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties as discussed in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, including our most recently filed Forms 10-K and 10-Q. We assume no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements made on today's call.

During this call and in our third quarter 2025 earnings press release, we refer to GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and are in addition to and not a substitute for or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures is included in our third quarter 2025 earnings press release available on our Investor Relations website.

Joining me on the call today are K.R. Sridhar, Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Maciej Kurzymski, our Acting Principal Financial Officer. K.R. will begin with an overview of our progress, and then Maciej will review financial highlights for the quarter. After our prepared remarks, we will have time to take your questions.

I will now turn the call over to K.R.

K. Sridhar
Co-Founder, CEO & Chairman

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. I'm delighted that Bloom had its fourth consecutive quarter of record revenue. This seminal year for Bloom positions us for an even stronger 2026 and beyond with higher growth and more profitability.

Three major tailwinds benefiting Bloom today have created a once-in-a-generation opportunity for us to become the global standard for on-site power generation. First, the AI buildouts and their power demands are making on-site power generated by natural gas a necessity. Second, winning the AI race is a nation-state priority, driving government policy and removing barriers that had previously been headwinds for on-site power generation. Third, our product innovation is advancing at a pace more akin to semiconductor evolution than to that of traditional industrial products. Every year, for over a decade, our fuel cells have seen double-digit year-over-year cost reductions.

While our costs are coming down, our performance is going up. Our fuel cells last longer, are more reliable and are more efficient and today produce 10x more power in the same footprint than they did 10 years ago.

These improvements have opened up large market opportunities. For example, we historically sold exclusively in high-cost electricity markets such as California and the Northeast. We are now competitive in large power-hungry markets of the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic, Mountain West and Texas, and many European and Asian cities.

Bloom is now positioned to become the standard in on-site power, which many of us believe will be a trillion-dollar market.

Becoming the standard means we will be the benchmark by which all others are measured. The reference point for speed, reliability and performance in on-site power. When customers, partners, regulators and governments think about dependable, dispatchable electricity, they should think about Bloom first.

While we built Bloom with the conviction that this moment would arrive, we had no illusions of the difficulties we would face to gain acceptance as we embarked on this journey. To be even considered, we had to be better in every dimension. We persevered and delivered step by step.

Now after 24 years, we have robust supply chains, manufacturing processes, installation capabilities and field performance data to show our customers we offer an unparalleled on-site power solution at speed and scale.

We obsess about meeting our customers' needs and do not expect them to compromise. We do not offer them false choices, clean, reliable or fast. Instead we offer them an and solution. We ship on time and aim to ship faster than anyone else. We are more reliable and resilient and offer our customers superior price-to-performance value.

Our mass-produced modular power systems allow us to power sites as small as your neighborhood retail store and as large as a giga AI factory that mass manufactures intelligence. Bloom Energy servers are safe, operate without consuming water, do not pollute the local air and have curb appeal, all features that make them welcomed in the communities where they are installed.

The precursor to becoming the standard is to first earn our place in the evaluation process alongside the well-entrenched and very capable competitors that have defined the market for decades. We are now executing on this phase, working to replicate in new markets, the success we have achieved in sectors like semiconductor manufacturing and telecommunications, industries that demand the highest reliability.

Today, we are the standard for on-site power in telecom and semiconductor manufacturing as evidenced by the rapid adoption of our technology by the top-tier players and the strong sales pipeline in those segments. Our strategy is deliberate and simple. In each vertical, we establish our credibility with a lighthouse account and then build on that success with other Tier 1 customers.

For example, in telecommunications, we first secured AT&T as a lighthouse customer in 2011. After they became convinced of our operational excellence, they deployed us in multiple sites in many states. Soon, we added Verizon and T-Mobile as customers and have sold over 100 megawatts of on-site power to telecoms.

Today, we are a go-to on-site power choice for U.S. telecom companies. Now we are following the same playbook to become the standard on-site power solution for AI. We are embedded in 7 distinct AI ecosystem channels. In each channel, we have secured a lighthouse customer in our robust pipelines.

First, the hyperscalers. Back in August, we announced our first deal to power an AI factory with Oracle. We have fulfilled our delivery ahead of schedule. We promised to deliver in 90 days, and we delivered in 55 days.

Second, electricity providers. Last year, we signed a gigawatt agreement with AEP, which purchased our fuel cell systems to power another big hyperscaler, AWS.

Third, gas providers. We signed our first deal with a major gas provider who will convert its gas to electricity with Bloom fuel cells and sell that on-site power to a third hyperscaler. The hyperscaler will announce details of this installation when it is ready.

Fourth are co-location providers. We work with many, including Equinix, which has deployed over 100 megawatts across data centers in multiple states.

Fifth, neoclouds. Our systems are generating on-site power for a top neocloud provider, CoreWeave, at a high-performance data center in Illinois.

Sixth, data center developers. When an understanding has been reached on key terms, developers begin to file permits and permissions. You may have seen some of these public filings recently.

Seventh, infrastructure owners. Large infrastructure funds are increasingly developing their own AI factories. Brookfield, the world's largest AI infrastructure investor has invested $50 billion in AI opportunities and is tripling the size of its AI strategy over the next 3 years. It announced an AI infrastructure partnership with Bloom Energy and made an initial investment of $5 billion.

Bloom will be the preferred on-site provider for Brookfield's trillion-dollar infrastructure portfolio of AI factories, data center operators, corporate facilities and factories. Brookfield will also finance Bloom-sourced AI opportunities. We have already completed projects and Brookfield plans to announce a Bloom-powered European AI inference data center project by the end of the year.

To recap, we have strong traction across all channels of the AI ecosystem. Each channel is anchored by a lighthouse customer and accompanied by robust commercial activity. As we continue to penetrate new geographies and verticals, success builds upon itself and should make each new market entry easier than the first. The opportunity is vast, and we are still in the early innings.

So what are we doing to make sure we are ready to handle growth as well as further advance our leadership position?

As we have previously announced, we are doubling our capacity to 2 gigawatts by December 2026, which will support about 4x our 2025 revenue. That expansion is all systems go. Bloom's capacity will not be a bottleneck for our customers.

We are also investing in operational talent and capabilities needed for the expansion of our production capacity beyond the 2 gigawatts. We are building a commercial team that can capture opportunities across diverse market segments and geographies. And we are continuing to invest in R&D to increase our lead in on-site power.

We are doing all of this while maintaining our focus on operational excellence and financial discipline to achieve margin expansion over time.

Based on what we see today, we expect 2025 to be better than our previously stated annual guidance on our financial metrics. In addition, we expect double-digit product cost reductions to continue and keep us on a path of margin accretion. We look forward to a strong 2026 as we march forward and build a future where Bloom powers the digital age and is the recognized standard for on-site power globally.

I'll turn over to Maciej now, and I look forward to answering your questions.

Maciej Kurzymski
Chief Accounting Officer & Interim CFO

Thank you, K.R., and good afternoon, everyone. As K.R. mentioned, Bloom is now positioned to become a standard in on-site power. Our announced customer base and financial results are a testament to this. On today's call, I will discuss our Q3 financial performance and make a few comments about fiscal 2025.

The last 4 quarters have been a record operational and financial performance and Q3 was no exception. While our commercial success have been most visible, the work our engineering, manufacturing and support teams have done behind the scenes to drive product cost reduction is evident in our financial results.

Highlights include record third quarter revenue, positive cash flows from operating activities and our seventh consecutive quarter of profitability in our service business.

As a reminder, I will focus my discussion on non-GAAP adjusted financial metrics. For a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP, please see our press release and the supplemental deck on our website.

Revenue for the quarter was $519 million, up 57% year-over-year. Time-to-power needs are creating demand for on-site power. This, together with the advantages of our fuel cell technology for AI factories is driving our revenue growth.

Gross margin was 30.4%, 510 basis points higher than the 25.2% gross margin in Q3 of 2024, driven by continued focus on product costs and manufacturing efficiencies.

Our operating income was $46.2 million versus $8.1 million in Q3 last year. Adjusted EBITDA was $59 million versus $21 million in Q3 of 2024 while EPS was a positive $0.15 versus $0.01 loss a year ago. Again, these are all non-GAAP results.

Our product margins were 35.9%, while our service margins were 14.4%. This is the second straight quarter of double-digit margins in the service business, and we expect this trend to continue.

As we have talked about on each call this year, we took advantage of our balance sheet and our visibility into customer demand to level load our factory. We expect to work down inventory in Q4 as our shipments of product accelerate.

Cash flow from operating activities was an inflow of $20 million, primarily due to working capital improvements. We ended the quarter with $627 million in total cash on the balance sheet.

Turning to the full year. As K.R. mentioned, based on what we see today, we expect fiscal 2025 to be better than our previously stated annual guidance on our financial metrics.

To conclude, Bloom is focused on not just on scale, but on showing sustainable profitability as we grow. We are uniquely positioned to benefit from this unprecedented market dynamic, and I could not be more excited about the opportunity in progress.

Operator, we are now happy to take questions.