BlackRock, Inc. (BLK) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 15, 2026 7:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Christopher Meade - Senior MD, General Counsel & Chief Legal Officer
Martin Small - Senior MD, CFO & Global Head of Corporate Strategy
Laurence Fink - Founder, CEO & Chairman

Conference Call Participants

Craig Siegenthaler - BofA Securities, Research Division
Michael Cyprys - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Michael Brown - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Kenneth Worthington - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Daniel Fannon - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Benjamin Budish - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock, Inc. Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Teleconference.

Our host for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Laurence D. Fink; Chief Financial Officer, Martin S. Small; President, Robert S. Capito; and General Counsel, Christopher J. Meade. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Mr. Meade, you may begin your conference.

Christopher Meade
Senior MD, General Counsel & Chief Legal Officer

Good morning, everyone. I'm Chris Meade, the General Counsel of BlackRock. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this call, we may make a number of forward-looking statements. We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may, of course, differ from these statements. As you know, BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC, which list some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today. BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.

So with that, I'll turn it over to Martin.

Martin Small
Senior MD, CFO & Global Head of Corporate Strategy

Thanks, Chris. Good morning and happy New Year to everyone. It's my pleasure to present results for the fourth quarter and full year 2025.

Before I turn it over to Larry, I'll review our financial performance and business results. Our earnings release discloses both GAAP and as-adjusted financial results. A reconciliation between GAAP and our as-adjusted results is included in today's press release. I'll be focusing primarily on our as-adjusted results. We're closing out one of the strongest years in our history. Clients awarded us nearly $700 billion in net new assets, 9% organic base fee growth and 16% technology ACV expansion. Our whole portfolio strategy is winning both mind and wallet share with clients. It's bringing even more momentum to the breadth of our organic growth. We had nearly 150 products across our ETF and mutual fund ranges with over $1 billion in flows. We had over $24 billion in revenue alongside nearly $10 billion in operating income, both up 50% since 2020 and earnings per share was a new record.

Our platform demonstrated resilience and growth even when markets were in turmoil back in April and captured steep upside when they rallied. 2025 was another proof point that BlackRock is a share gainer when there's money in motion. Our 10% increase to our 2026 dividend per share and increase in planned share repurchases to $1.8 billion are driven by our accelerating growth trajectory and platform success in 2025. That's our highest dividend increase since 2021 and comes after a record $5 billion payout to shareholders in 2025. Supported by both 9% organic base fee growth and favorable markets, we entered 2026 with a base fees run rate that's approximately 35% higher than our base fees in 2024 and approximately 50% higher than 2023. This stronger entry point enhances our ability to deliver future earnings, return capital to shareholders and execute on our 2030 ambitions.

We delivered 6% or higher organic base fee growth in each quarter of 2025. We finished the year with 2 consecutive quarters of double-digit organic base fee growth, including 12% in the fourth quarter. That growth is broad-based across our systematic franchise, private markets, ETFs, digital assets, cash and outsourcing. And it's across capabilities that we've had for decades and others that we've built or acquired in the last 2 years. That gives us confidence we're on the right track with clients and we have a lot of optimism for the years ahead. You've heard us say it's not that the big are getting bigger, it's that the best are getting bigger. Size and scale are outputs of performance. We've wrapped a successful 2025 and now we're moving with speed and scale to go upward from here. We're building leading franchises in newer high-growth markets across the industry, private markets to insurance, private markets to wealth, digital assets and active ETFs. We think these can all be $500 million revenue generators in the next 5 years.

We already have industry-leading margins and we see real opportunity to drive margin expansion through the FRE growth trajectory of our private markets and our highly scaled foundational businesses. We entered 2026 with strong momentum and our first year as a fully integrated firm with GIP, Preqin and HPS. We're pioneering what we believe is the asset management model of the future. It's one that seamlessly brings together public and private markets, it interoperates between traditional and decentralized financial ecosystems and it's powered by technology and data with Aladdin, eFront and Preqin. BlackRock houses the world's #1 ETF franchise, a top 5 alternatives platform with more than $675 billion in client assets, $0.5 trillion in target date AUM, leading advisory services and a tech and data SaaS franchise with nearly $2 billion in revenue.

Moving to financial results. Full year revenue of $24 billion was up 19% year-over-year. Operating income of $9.6 billion was up 18% and earnings per share of $48.09 increased 10%. Fourth quarter revenue of $7 billion was 23% higher year-over-year, driven by the acquisitions of HPS and Preqin, organic base fee growth over the trailing 12-month period and the positive impact of market movements on average AUM. Quarterly operating income of $2.8 billion was up 22%, while earnings per share of $13.16 increased 10% versus a year ago. EPS also reflected a lower tax rate, lower nonoperating income and a higher share count in the current quarter linked to the close of the HPS transaction on July 1.

Nonoperating results for the quarter included $106 million of net investment losses, primarily due to a noncash mark-to-market loss linked to our minority investment in Circle. In mid-December, we contributed a portion of our stake in Circle to our existing donor-advised funds. Following this transaction, we maintain approximately 1.1 million shares of Circle common stock, which will continue to be marked through investment income. Our as-adjusted tax rate for the fourth quarter was approximately 20% and benefited from discrete items. We currently estimate that 25% is a reasonable projected tax run rate for 2026. The actual effective tax rate may differ because of nonrecurring or discrete items or potential changes in tax legislation. Fourth quarter base fees and securities lending revenue of $5.3 billion was up 19% year-over-year, driven by the positive impact of market beta on average AUM, organic base fee growth and approximately $230 million in base fees from HPS.

On an equivalent day count basis, our annualized effective fee rate was approximately 0.1 basis point lower compared to the third quarter. This decrease was primarily due to higher securities lending revenue in the third quarter, which benefited from specials. We're seeing client demand from our structural growers like private markets, systematic, models, OCIO, ETFs and SMAs. And these capabilities provide positive leverage to average fee rates. The fee yields on new asset flows this year are 6 to 7x higher than they were in 2023 and are at a premium to our overall fee rate. Fourth quarter performance fees of $754 million increased from a year ago, reflecting higher revenue from alternatives and included $158 million from HPS.

Full quarter and full year technology services and subscription revenue, each increased 24% year-over-year, reflecting the successful onboarding of a number of new clients, expanding relationships with existing clients and the closing of the Preqin transaction. Preqin added approximately $65 million and $213 million of revenue in the fourth quarter and full year, respectively.

Annual contract value, or ACV, increased 31% year-over-year, including the impact of Preqin. ACV increased 16% organically. Total expense increased 19% in 2025, primarily driven by higher compensation, sales, asset and account expense and G&A expense. Full year employee compensation and benefit expense was up 20%, primarily reflecting higher incentive compensation associated with performance fees as well as higher operating income. The year-over-year increase also reflects the impact of onboarding GIP, Preqin and HPS employees. Full year G&A expense was up 15%, primarily due to M&A transactions and higher technology investment spend. Our fourth quarter as-adjusted operating margin of 45% was down 50 basis points year-over-year. Our full year as-adjusted operating margin of 44.1% decreased 40 basis points from a year ago. Both periods reflect the impact of performance fees and related compensation. We continue to deliver margin expansion on recurring fee-related earnings.

Excluding the impact of all performance fees and related compensation, our adjusted operating margin for the fourth quarter would have been 45.5%, up 30 basis points year-over-year. Our full year margin would have been 44.9%, 60 basis points higher relative to 2024. As we execute on our organic base fee growth and operating margin ambitions, we'll continue to be disciplined in both our hiring and our investments. After annualizing for the impact of HPS and Preqin, we would expect a mid-single-digit percentage increase in G&A. Additionally, we would expect BlackRock's headcount to be broadly flat in 2026. After investing for growth, we returned a record $5 billion to our shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases in 2025. This includes $500 million and $1.6 billion of share repurchases for fourth quarter and full year, respectively.

BlackRock's Board of Directors recently approved a 10% increase to our first quarter 2026 dividend per share, building on our track record of strong dividend growth and demonstrating confidence in our cash flow generation and durable earnings expansion. That represents a 13% increase in the dollar amount of dividends expected to be paid. The Board also authorized the repurchase of an additional 7 million shares under our share repurchase program. At present, based on capital spending plans for the year and subject to market and other conditions, we are targeting a purchase of $1.8 billion worth of shares during 2026. Full year total net inflows of $698 billion reflected positive flows and organic base fee growth across all asset classes and active and index. iShares led the industry and set a new flows record with $527 billion in 2025, representing 12% organic asset and 13% organic base fee growth.

Net inflows were diversified across core equity and premium categories like fixed income, active and digital asset ETPs. iShares net inflows of $181 billion in the fourth quarter once again demonstrated strong momentum into year-end, supported by seasonal portfolio reallocations. Full year retail net inflows of $107 billion were led by the onboarding of the $80 billion SMA assignment from Citi Wealth during the fourth quarter. Separate from this assignment, Aperio had its fifth consecutive record year of net inflows with $15 billion, active fixed income added $3 billion and alternatives generated $12 billion in 2025. BlackRock's institutional active franchise generated net inflows of $54 billion in 2025, reflecting the onboarding of multiple outsourcing mandates, the above-target close of GIP V and deployment in private credit.

Institutional index net outflows of $119 billion were mainly driven by redemptions from low-fee index equity strategies. Our scaled private markets platform delivered $40 billion of full year net inflows led by private credit and infrastructure. We're targeting $400 billion in gross private markets fundraising through 2030, powered by origination, strong investment performance and the depth of our client relationships. Our valuable position as a trusted long-term partner to corporates and sovereigns provides us with unique visibility and insight into capital markets and client activity, enabling differentiated deal flows, tailored solutions and long-term value creation for our clients and shareholders.

Finally, BlackRock Cash Management saw $74 billion of net inflows in the fourth quarter and $131 billion in 2025, driven by U.S. government, international, Prime and Circle Reserve Funds. BlackRock's platform is anchored by growth engines tied to the long-term expansion of global capital markets and fast-growing client product channels. The opportunity ahead is inspiring to reshape portfolios for more complex markets, to deepen partnerships with clients and to deliver durable, profitable growth for our shareholders. We entered 2026 with the combined strength of BlackRock, GIP, HPS and Preqin, now all One BlackRock and we're excited to share our growth with clients, employees and shareholders.

I'll turn it over to Larry.

Laurence Fink
Founder, CEO & Chairman

Thank you, Martin. Good morning, everyone and Happy New Year. Thank you for joining. We entered 2026 with accelerating momentum across our entire platform. It will be the first full year with the combined strength of BlackRock, GIP, HPS and Preqin. We're coming off the strongest year and quarter of net inflows in our history. BlackRock awarded -- clients awarded BlackRock with nearly $700 billion in new assets in 2025, including $342 billion in the fourth quarter. And the consistency of our results stands out even more over the long term with nearly $2.5 trillion of net inflows over the last 5 years.

Our pipeline of business has broadened across products and regions, spanning public and private markets, technology and data and client channels. We're seeing excellent fundraising activity. We have an ambitious 2026 fundraising plan diversified across infrastructure, equity and debt, private financing solutions and multi-alternatives. Our client relationships have never been stronger and deeper. We're a scale operator in public and private markets, investments in technology, that's significantly enhancing our position with clients worldwide. We're building off accelerating growth over the course of 2025. We delivered 6% or higher organic base fee growth each quarter and we ended the year with 12% organic base fee growth and 16% technology ACV growth in the fourth quarter. These growth rates are both 4 points higher than last year and 9% full year organic base fee growth represents $1.5 billion of net new base fees. That means we enter 2026 with base fees approaching $21 billion, 13% higher than 2025.

And we delivered a premium 45% operating margin. Our scale and Aladdin technology fuels growth and helps push down our marginal cost. We're in an upward trajectory in our margins on fee occurring -- recurring earnings as we continue to drive growth in private markets and scale businesses like ETFs and systematic equities. Our belief in our future growth, increasing profitability and durability of cash flow led us to increase the dividend per share by 10% and step up planned share repurchases. Over the last 10 years, we delivered a 10% compounded annual growth rate in our dividend and over a 15% annual return on our repurchases. And we're confident than ever that our -- in our model and the outsized opportunity we see across multiple growth engines.

Our foundational businesses like iShares are unlocking new markets like in active ETFs and digital assets. At the same time, we're a leader in emerging trends like private markets to wealth, 401(k)s, tokenization and private market data. In private markets, our investments in infrastructure and private credit and alts to wealth underpin our ambitions to raise $400 billion in private markets by 2030. BlackRock is already managing $3 trillion on behalf of insurance, wealth and OCIO clients. We have a significant opportunity to deliver better outcomes and experiences for clients in private market allocations.

And for our shareholders, that shift represents new private markets AUM and potentially over $1 billion in new base fees. For example, BlackRock is the largest general account manager for insurers with $700 billion in AUM. With HPS, we're now also one of the largest asset-based finance and high-grade managers. We're in about 20 late-stage conversations to help insurers build more dynamic and diversified portfolios across public and private markets. Similarly, in wealth, we're focused on expanding access to private markets. We're bringing together strong investment performance track records with BlackRock's scaled global distribution model. We have the largest wholesaling team in the industry covering every corner of the United States marketplace.

We have very strong relationships in private banks in Europe. Our more than $1 trillion of wealth platform spans end clients' whole portfolios from models and SMAs to ETFs and private markets. We're also a technology provider through Aladdin Wealth, which brings institutional quality portfolio construction right to the desktops of our financial advisers. We continue to expand and diversify distribution of HPS nontraded BDC to U.S. wirehouses and RIAs, and we believe model portfolios will be another unlock. We're also planning to widen our product range through an H Series family of funds that would be led by the flagship HLEND alongside junior capital, real assets, triple net lease, multi-strat credit and secondaries and co-investment strategies. We plan to bring all the building blocks to serve wealth investors through coordinated multi-alts portfolios.

Then in retirement, we're seeing important progress towards a framework to include private assets and target date funds. We expect to launch our first LifePath Target Date fund with private markets later this year. Most Americans' only experience with capital markets is through their 401(k) plan. I said many times that helping workers build and spend their retirement savings is one of the greatest challenges of our generation. We've long associated for better retirement solutions and easier access to investment options. BlackRock has also championed early childhood savings accounts and the policies that make them possible and we're encouraged by and supportive of the launch of these accounts in the United States.

For retirement savers, there's a real opportunity to bring additional returns and diversification to investors through private markets. BlackRock will be at the forefront with our leading DCIO business, our $600 billion LifePath franchise, top 5 alternative platforms and definitely Preqin. We expect plan sponsors will need standardized benchmarking and performance data to validate their plan choices and Preqin can be the central provider. Our leadership in all of these areas distinguishes BlackRock with plan sponsors and policymakers. We've always been a leader in retirement and a first mover in developing new solutions in retirement. We started innovating LifePath Paycheck in 2018 and it's been the fastest-growing lifetime income target date strategy in the defined contribution market. We believe it will be the default retirement investment strategy.

Guaranteed income and private markets are not 2 separate conversations. BlackRock can bring it all together. Our vision is not just for incremental addition of private markets. It's the design of an optimal target date solution, one that combines public markets, private markets and guaranteed income like LifePath Paycheck. BlackRock has long-standing relationships and decades of experience in working with plan sponsors and building client-first retirement solutions for their members. We're a bit over a year into closing our GIP transaction and we're already seeing synergies through our combined expertise and relationships. GIP V closed above its $25 billion target in July and our AI partnership, which was not part of the deal model, continues to attract significant capital. AIP has raised over $12.5 billion from partnership founders and clients.

Our initial target is to mobilize and deploy $30 billion of equity capital with the potential of reaching $100 billion, including debt. More broadly, we're seeing excellent progress across the range of infrastructure strategies, including mid-cap and emerging markets' infra equity and investment-grade, high-yield and credit-sensitive infra debt. The current cash flow and inflation-protected return profile of infrastructure makes it an attractive sector for our clients, especially those saving for retirement. More broadly, income-oriented strategies are a critical component of our clients' portfolios. BlackRock manages over $4.5 trillion in assets across both public fixed income, cash and private credit. This means we can provide an integrated fixed income solution for clients, that delivers scale benefits.

In 2025, we generated over $45 billion of net inflows across our high-performing active fixed income franchise, led by Rick Rieder. We believe 2026 is shaping up to be another year where returns may be driven primarily by income rather than price appreciation. We're well positioned to capture flows with strong performance and differentiated strategies across municipals, high yield, total return and unconstrained fixed income strategies. And we're leveraging active ETFs to provide access to our portfolio managers inside along with the benefits of the ETF wrapper. Our active ETFs drove more than $50 billion in net inflows in 2025, nearly tripling their assets in the last year. Rick's flexible active income ETF, BINC, B-I-N-C, and our systematic U.S. equity factor rotation ETF, DYNF, led our active ETF flows for the year. DYNF was the highest inflowing active ETF in the industry with $14 billion of net inflows. It is our flagship of our systematic equity platform.

Overall, our systematic equity franchise raised over $50 billion in 2025, even as the active equity industry saw another year of outflows. Our systematic investments have been using data and AI for 20 years. We've invested in this business. And today, its IP delivers alpha to clients and helps portfolio managers across BlackRock to invest better. As more investors are looking at how to use AI for investments, we already have one of the best platforms utilizing AI and big data to drive thousands of alpha signals. We're optimistic about our systematic platform, continued double-digit organic base fee growth potential and its position as a bright spot in the active equity industry. iShares continues to be an innovation engine for BlackRock. iShares remains the market leader in ETFs in terms of organic assets and base fee growth, countries served and in product lineup. 2025 was another record year for iShares with $527 billion of net inflows.

In 2000, with just 40 ETFs, BlackRock's iShares set out to revolutionize investing. And over those 25 years, iShares has led the way in democratization of access to the growth of capital markets. BlackRock shaped the industry and we continue to expand the choice and access for investors around the world. We brought U.S. investors access to international markets and we introduced ETFs to Europe. We launched the world's first bond ETF. We provide over 1,700 ETFs today, more than 6x the next largest issuer. And we're focused on providing investors value for their money while driving growth and margin expansion for our shareholders. iShares AUM was about $300 billion when we announced our acquisition in 2009. Today, it's $5.5 trillion and iShares revenues have more than quadrupled to over $8 billion.

iShares is delivering growth both through core channels and newer premium initiatives like active ETFs, digital assets and in international markets. In Europe, ETF net inflows of $136 billion was approximately 50% higher than 2024. And we're seeing more individuals coming to iShares through digitally enabled offerings and monthly savings plans. We're seeing similar trends in India, where our JioBlackRock joint venture operates through a digital-first direct-to-consumer model. JioBlackRock raised $2 billion upon launch, 6x the previous industry record and now manages 12 funds spanning cash, index, systematic equities on behalf of nearly 400 institutions and already more than 1 million Indian retail investors. More broadly, we're seeing great momentum in connectivity with clients in international markets.

Both in Asia and in Lat Am, we saw double-digit organic base fee growth in 2025. Growth in Asia was led by our active wealth strategies and $30 billion of ETF net inflows across our locally listed and global ETF range. In Latin America, our local presence is similarly resonating through our onshore ETFs and wealth offerings. And in the Middle East, we have a strong history as a trusted adviser to countries looking to allocate capital or to build out their own local markets. It is one of our fastest-growing regions. Our Aladdin technology powers and unites all of our platform and all our work. The fact that BlackRock is the largest user of Aladdin allows us to stay attuned to changes in the marketplace and adapt Aladdin for our clients. Today, we're enabling our clients to more easily manage their exposures through end-to-end integration across public and private markets. 16% technology ACV growth reflected several innovative multiproduct wins, which will drive future revenues.

Through Preqin, we're expanding access to actionable private market data, giving investors the analytics they need to build strong and reliable portfolios. The BlackRock platform is comprehensive. It's global. We're a leader in public markets. We're a leader in private markets, and we are a leader in technology and data. We're a foundational provider in the traditional financial markets and the evolving decentralized financial ecosystem. Most importantly, we bring it all together to deliver BlackRock to our clients in a comprehensive, consistent, determined way. We're entering 2026 with elevated momentum and we're positioned ahead of big future opportunities. We ended the year with 12% organic base fee growth, record flows and a new AUM high at $14 trillion. This already lifts our base fee entry level rate by 13%.

We are confident in our organic base fee growth ambitions. We plan to raise a cumulative $400 billion in private markets by 2030. We're focused on our margins and driving profitable growth. This all should translate to shareholder value through higher earnings and then multiple expansion. I'd like to thank our employees for the work they do every day on behalf of our clients, each and every client that we stand by as a fiduciary. When we do well for our clients, we also do well for our employees and then we do well for our shareholders. I believe they're all -- they'll all be beneficiaries of our future growth.

Operator, let's open it up for questions.

