BP p.l.c. (BP) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Craig Marshall - Group Head of Investor Relations
Murray Auchincloss - CEO & Director
Katherine Thomson - CFO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Alastair Syme - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Alejandro Vigil - Banco Santander, S.A., Research Division
Irene Himona - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Lydia Rainforth - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Douglas George Blyth Leggate - Wolfe Research, LLC
Lucas Herrmann - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Christopher Kuplent - BofA Securities, Research Division
Ryan Todd - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Paul Cheng - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Michele Della Vigna - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Henry Tarr - Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG, Research Division
Kim Fustier - HSBC Global Investment Research
Joshua Eliot Stone - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jeoffrey Lambujon - Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. Securities, LLC, Research Division
Peter Low - Rothschild & Co Redburn, Research Division
Mark Wilson - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Bertrand Hodee - Kepler Cheuvreux, Research Division
Jason Gabelman - TD Cowen, Research Division
Maurizio Carulli

Presentation

Craig Marshall
Group Head of Investor Relations

Welcome, everyone, to BP's Third Quarter 2025 Results Call, which today we're hosting in Abu Dhabi. We'll be focusing today's call on the third quarter results and the contents of the video that I hope many of you will have seen by now. But before we move to Q&A, let me firsthand over to Murray for a few brief opening remarks. Murray?

Murray Auchincloss
CEO & Director

Thanks, Craig, and thanks, everyone, for joining the call today. We're now 3 quarters into our 12-quarter plan and have delivered another strong quarter of operational performance and strategic progress. Earnings and cash flow generation was good with underlying pretax earnings of $5.3 billion and underlying net income of $2.2 billion. And with $7.8 billion of operating cash flow delivered this quarter, we are making good progress in delivering on our growth target for adjusted free cash flow growth of 20% CAGR over '25 to '27.

Our operations teams are doing a great job in running the assets well with upstream production increasing by around 3% quarter-on-quarter, supported by upstream plant reliability at around 97%, leading to upgraded full-year underlying production guidance and refining availability also close to 97%, the best quarter in 20 years for the current portfolio. Looking ahead, we're also making strong strategic progress.

We've started up 6 new oil and gas major projects in 2025, 4 of which were ahead of schedule. And we've had 12 exploration discoveries so far this year, including Bumerangue in Brazil, where the latest analysis and results gives us even further confidence. This performance is also showing up in the downstream as well.

Underlying earnings in the first 9 months were around 40% higher than the same period in 2024. In customers, we delivered our highest 3Q on record and refining captured a better margin environment. We're making good progress on derisking our $20 billion divestment proceeds target, today upgrading our proceeds guidance underpinned by proceeds completed and announced this year that are expected to be around $5 billion.

We're staying disciplined with our capital investment with organic CapEx on track to be below $14 billion. And we remain confident in the momentum we are building in support of the delivery of the cost and net debt targets we have laid out. In summary, while there remains a lot of volatility, we are staying focused on what we control, underpinned by a laser-like focus on performance across the company.

We have world-class assets and capability with operations delivering strongly. We have a deep resource base and are building high-quality options for growth in the future, the focus of our ongoing portfolio review. We're continuing our momentum to drive -- in our drive to reduce costs. we're making good progress in growing cash flow and returns and our plans to strengthen the balance sheet. And of course, we have more to do. All of this is in service of growing shareholder value and returns.

With that, I'll hand over to Craig to take us through the Q&A.