Braze, Inc. (BRZE) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 9, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Christopher Ferris - Head of Investor Relations
William Magnuson - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Isabelle Winkles - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Ryan MacWilliams - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Gabriela Borges - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
James Wood - TD Cowen, Research Division
Taylor McGinnis - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Arjun Bhatia - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Brian Peterson - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Scott Berg - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Brett Huff - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Matthew VanVliet - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Tyler Radke - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Yun Suk Kim - Loop Capital Markets LLC, Research Division
Patrick Walravens - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to the Braze's Fiscal Third Quarter 2026 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Leila, and I'll be your operator for today's call. [Operator Instructions].

I'll now turn the call over to Christopher Ferris, Vice President of Braze Investor Relations.

Christopher Ferris
Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today to review Braze's results for the fiscal third quarter 2026. I'm joined by our Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Bill Magnuson, and our Chief Financial Officer, Isabelle Winkles. We announced our results in a press release issued after the market closed today. Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website at investors.braze.com for more information and a supplemental presentation related to today's earnings announcement.

During this call, we will make statements related to our business that are forward-looking under federal securities laws and the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our financial outlook for the fourth quarter and the fiscal year ended January 31, 2026. The anticipated benefits from and product advancements due to the combination of Braze and ongoing developments in Braze AI technology, our expectations concerning new customer verticals our anticipated customer behaviors, including vendor consolidation and replacement trends and their impact on Braze, our potential market opportunity and our ability to effectively execute on such opportunity, and our long-term financial targets and goals, including our expectations regarding our profitability framework.

These statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and reflect our views only as of today. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. For a discussion of the material risks and uncertainties that could affect our actual results, please refer to the risks identified in today's press release and our SEC filings, both available on the Investor Relations section of our website.

I'd also like to remind you that today's call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures used by management to evaluate our ongoing operations and to aid investors in further understanding the company's fiscal third quarter 2026 performance in addition to the impact these items have on the financial results.

Please refer to the reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP included in our earnings release under the Investor Relations section of our website.

The non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bill.

William Magnuson
Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Chris, and good afternoon, everyone. We're pleased to report strong third quarter results, generating $191 million of revenue, up 25.5% year-over-year and 6% from the prior quarter. We also continue to drive efficiency in our business, improving non-GAAP operating margins by over 400 basis points year-over-year and generating $18 million of free cash flow. We have now delivered 4 straight quarters of non-GAAP operating income and 6 straight quarters of non-GAAP net income, demonstrating our commitment to driving higher profitability while thoughtfully reinvesting in our business with the goal to position Braze as the global standard for omnichannel customer engagement.

Our momentum was strong in the quarter as we again realized solid bookings across verticals and geographies. Pipeline generation was solid, indicating continued market demand while customers continue to adopt more channels and AI solutions, driving optimism as we look ahead to fiscal year 2027. We achieved our strongest quarter of customer additions in 3 years, adding 106 sequentially and 317 year-over-year to 2,528, up 14%. Our large customer additions were also very strong, adding 21 $500,000-plus ARR customers sequentially and 69 year-over-year to 303, up 29%. Recent new business wins and existing customer expansions include CJ Olive Young, Eventbrite, Goat, Grubhub Seamless, LinkTree, MIindBody,nuts.com, Rafeeq, RSG Group GmbH and Vivid Seats along with many others.

Competitive takeaways from the legacy marketing clouds continue to demonstrate the market's preference for Braze's AI-driven omnichannel customer engagement solution, leveraging first-party data and frontier AI to deliver on modern customer engagement use cases. This quarter, brands across diverse industries and geographies migrated to Braze from legacy platforms, including a global appliance manufacturer, North American financial services firm, a Latin American retailer, a North American consumer insights platform, a sports league in APAC, a North American restaurant chain and a luxury goods retailer in APAC. These wins validate Braze's ability to offer a unified real-time solution that supports ambitious AI-driven customer engagement strategies.

Our comprehensiveness and advanced yet intuitive capabilities are also on display when we compete against less sophisticated point solutions, including recent wins with a travel platform in EMEA, a property finance firm in North America, a resale marketplace in Latin America and a financial services firm in APAC, among many others. As we navigate this dynamic technical and competitive environment, Braze remains forward-looking, rapidly introducing new AI-driven capabilities alongside first-party data activation. By applying state-of-the-art reinforcement learning and generative AI across an ever-evolving array of messaging channels and product interfaces, we help our customers leverage their first-party data to deliver more relevant experiences for their consumers and grow their businesses.

This power of AI to build personalized cross-channel campaigns was on display during this year's Cyber Week, running from November 25 to December 1, as marketers increasingly leverage AI to accelerate campaign creation and improve overall performance. Over the Cyber Week period, Braze delivered 102.5 billion messages with global sending throughput peaking at about 28.5 million messages per minute. During the 4-day period running from Black Friday through Cyber Monday, Braze delivered nearly 60 billion messages with 100% uptime, demonstrating the strength, scale and reliability of our platform. Behind the impressive headline numbers is also a story of increasing sophistication as marketers continue to evolve away from single-channel campaigns toward more sophisticated programs.

Leveraging dynamic data to create and strengthen direct relationships with our customers across a variety of channels. In addition, Braze witnessed the growing use of AI to power operational efficiency and personalization at scale as brands made extensive use of Braze AI functionality to accelerate campaign creation, improve the resonance and relevance of messaging for their customers and elevate their work during a critically busy period. We are pleased to see customers using the full spectrum of Braze AI capabilities, including by crafting dynamic campaign content using the Braze Liquid Assistant, accelerating content production using Braze AI copy and image generation tools, ensuring strong clarity, impact and tone of messaging with Braze AI content quality assurance and delivering smarter product personalization with AI item recommendations.

The increasing sophistication of our customer base and the rapid uptake of AI as a competitive lever affirm the strength of our AI road map and the Braze community. Performance during Black Friday and Cyber Monday also reinforced the role of premium messaging channels as key drivers of conversion, retention and high-value engagement. During the Black Friday to Cyber Monday period, Braze orchestrated a 90% increase in SMS and WhatsApp message sends, a 55% increase in content cards impressions and a 32% increase in e-mail messages. The impressive volumes during such a crucial marketing period highlights the growing desire of marketers to diversify their strategies and further personalize their connection with their customers.

Because SMS and WhatsApp are sensitive inboxes, brand performance and reputation is directly tied to how effectively they can personalize these experiences. Additionally, these premium messaging channels are also often utilized for mid-funnel use cases where engagement, conversion and monetization are materially higher. Overall, the increasing mix of channels being used by Braze customers signals that the field of customer engagement is moving up the value curve, supporting the deployment of more complex campaigns and the activation of additional channels and platforms. This pattern is a driver of the vendor consolidation motion that we've highlighted in past earnings. It's a clear signal that Braze is becoming more deeply embedded into our customers' engagement infrastructure and it highlights the need for further productivity gains and relevance enhancement from Braze AI.

Innovation is central to Braze's DNA and its product road map. Since we anticipated the massive opportunity presented by the widespread adoption of mobile technology more than a decade ago, we have relentlessly seized this opportunity by developing leading-edge technology to advance the craft of customer engagement. Through AI, we believe using Braze should feel like collaborating with specialists who accelerate and elevate your work, delivering the guidance and output from brand strategists, copywriters, developers and data analysts to help marketers win the competition for user attention, advocacy and loyalty. Over time, we aim to help marketers ascend from the drudge work of baby sitting campaigns and to instead operate as strategic conductors, building and delivering one-on-one personalized experiences that are impactful for their consumers and that build brand equity through resonance and reciprocal value creation.

At our Forge Customer Conference in late September, we articulated how rapidly these tools and techniques are evolving. Previously, we've used the listen, understand and act framework to describe the problem space of customer engagement and the flow of our stream processing architecture. Now AI broadens the potential of each of these steps. Listen becomes context as it is enriched with the insights and the comprehensiveness of an AI-enhanced composable data platform. Understand becomes intelligence as products gain the ability to both reason and act with enhanced autonomy. And action expands to interaction as AI systems increase their expressiveness and consumer behaviors evolve with a real-time feedback loop guiding subsequent interactions delivered as a continuous experience.

Let me take a moment to detail this conceptual evolution and explain how Braze is introducing tools to meet this moment. Modern AI is fed by context and enhanced by reasoning. Within Braze, that context is provided by the Braze data platform and enhanced by our native SDKs, partner integrations, robust APIs, reverse ETL capabilities and the recently available Braze MCP server. The intelligence phase brings the design advantages of composability beyond just data, offering a full spectrum of composable intelligence, notably including the agent console, which enhances customer journeys, enriches data and accelerates workflows. Agent console allows marketers to create custom agents that can be configured within Braze and deployed in both Canvas, our no-code visual development environment and Braze catalogs to process, enrich and reason about brand data and customer behavior at scale and speed.

We have dozens of customers using the agent console to take in unstructured data, including natural language from customer conversations and respond interactively to maximize the value that they deliver in the most important moments for their consumers. We recently partnered with Aeroflow Health, a leading medical equipment and supplies company to optimize their SMS reordering process for breast pump supplies. After seeing the flurry of Braze AI product announcements at Forge, they rapidly experimented with the Braze AI Agent console and Canvas context steps to enable a sophisticated SMS conversation that understood natural language in real time and process orders automatically. The program is moving from testing to production after delivering a large conversion lift that could drive tens of thousands of projected additional annual orders.

As marketers continue to experiment and innovate with these new features, the Braze operator also announced at Forge, stands ready to speed their education and enhance their productivity. Operator streamlines existing work by accelerating campaign creation, analyzing reports and uncovering data insights, automating quality assurance tasks and getting quick answers from documentation and source code through our intelligent assistant. Hundreds of our customers are enabled on operator and experiencing early success. And of course, we introduced the Braze AI Decisioning Studio, developed from the OfferFit acquisition, which deploys AI decisioning agents to continuously experiment and personalize any aspect of customer engagement using insights and context from first-party data.

Recently, we partnered with a large U.S. e-commerce brand to push their prior personalization strategy to new heights. Using Braze AI Decisioning Studio with reinforcement learning agents that independently experiment and identify optimal actions, they deliver deeper one-on-one personalization at incredible scale, managing approximately 5.1 quintillion permutations to select the optimal action for millions of their customers. The results generated a rapid and meaningful uplift in customer engagement, including a 12% uplift in app downloads and a 15% increase in conversion to premium memberships when compared to their prior strategy. The collaboration has driven such tremendous value in consumer insights that the customer is rethinking their entire life cycle marketing approach, transitioning the job of relevance optimization from manual A/B testing to AI-driven one-on-one decisioning, moving beyond merely deploying the best averages and instead relying on modern reinforcement learning to maximize resonance with every individual.

Finally, I'd like to highlight our first-of-its-kind SDK support for native apps and ChatGPT that we announced in mid-October. Building on our deep experience from growing up in the mobile app ecosystem, this integration for ChatGPT apps will allow marketers to ensure that sophisticated customer engagement strategies are enabled in their new ChatGPT apps from the earliest phases of development. Brands will be able to continue the conversation with users of their ChatGPT native apps on other channels while also using Braze's in-product channels and personalization features to enhance their consumer-facing ChatGPT app interfaces. What's even more remarkable is the speed with which the Braze engineering team was able to release this integration, launching a fully featured SDK just 2 weeks after the announcement of the ChatGPT app programs. This was enabled by our deep experience building SDKs for native app development and our proprietary architecture, which allows for rapid support of new platforms and channels as technology and consumer behaviors evolve in tandem.

Combined with our composable data and intelligence capabilities, we are seeing the best of Braze's foundations combined with the leading edge of AI. I'll conclude by reiterating our commitment to driving long-term growth, efficiency and profitability in our business. Thank you for your interest and support of Braze. And now I'll turn the call over to Isabelle.

Isabelle Winkles
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Bill, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. As Bill stated, we reported a strong third quarter with revenue increasing 25.5% year-over-year to $191 million, driven by a combination of existing customer contract expansions, renewals and new business. Braze AI Decisioning Studio, formerly known as OfferFit, contributed $4.8 million of revenue in the quarter. This implies an organic revenue growth rate of 22.3% year-over-year, which represents the second sequential quarter of organic revenue growth acceleration. Subscription revenue remains the primary component of our total top line, contributing 95% of our third quarter revenue, while the remaining 5% represents a combination of recurring professional services and onetime configuration and onboarding fees.

Total customer count increased 14% year-over-year to 2,528 customers as of October 31, 2025, up 317 from the same period last year and up 106 from the prior quarter. This sequential growth reflects the largest quarter-over-quarter increase in customer count since the third quarter of fiscal year 2023. Our total number of large customers, which we define as those spending at least $500,000 annually, grew 29% year-over-year to 303. And as of October 31, 2025, these customers contributed 63% to our total ARR compared to a 61% contribution as of the same quarter last year. Measured across all customers, dollar-based net retention was 108%, while dollar-based net retention for our large customers was 110%. Expansion was again broadly distributed across industries and geographic regions.

Revenue outside the U.S. contributed 45% of our total revenue in the third quarter, in line with the second quarter of this year and the prior year quarter. In quarter, organic dollar-based net retention increased for the second straight quarter to over 107%, slightly above our in-quarter organic dollar-based net retention in Q2 of this year. We continue to observe stabilization in this metric as we realize the benefits of our investments to moderate downsell activity. In the third quarter, our total remaining performance obligation was $891 million, up 24% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially. Current RPO was $573 million, up 25% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially. The year-over-year increases were driven by contract renewals and upsells and the signing of new customer contracts.

Overall, our dollar-weighted contract length remains at just over 2 years. Non-GAAP gross profit in the quarter was $132 million, representing a non-GAAP gross margin of 69.1% compared to a non-GAAP gross profit of $107 million and non-GAAP gross margin of 70.5% in the third quarter of last year. The decrease in year-over-year gross margin was driven primarily by higher premium messaging volume and hosting costs, partially offset by improved efficiencies and personnel costs. Non-GAAP sales and marketing expenses were $77 million or 40% of revenue compared to $65 million or 43% of revenue in the prior year quarter. The dollar increase reflects our year-over-year investments in headcount costs to support our ongoing growth and global expansion, while the improved efficiency reflects our disciplined approach to investment as we continue to scale and expand the business.

Non-GAAP R&D expense was $28 million or 15% of revenue compared to $22 million or 15% of revenue in the prior year quarter. The dollar increase was primarily driven by increased headcount costs to support the expansion of our existing offerings as well as to develop new products and features to drive growth. Our R&D expenditures reflect our intentional yet disciplined technology investment strategy and remain in line with our long-term non-GAAP R&D percent of revenue target of 13% to 15%. Non-GAAP G&A expense was $22 million or 12% of revenue compared to $22 million or 15% of revenue in the prior year quarter. The improved efficiency reflects increasing scaling across public company expenses and the benefit of leveraging strategic locations for headcount expansion.

Non-GAAP operating income was $5 million or 2.7% of revenue compared to a non-GAAP operating loss of $2 million or negative 1.4% of revenue in the prior year quarter. Non-GAAP net income attributable to Braze shareholders in the quarter was $7 million or $0.06 per share compared to $2 million or $0.02 per share in the prior year quarter. Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement. We ended the quarter with approximately $387 million in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities. Cash provided by operations during the quarter was $21 million compared to cash used in operations of $11 million in the prior year quarter. Including the cash impact of capitalized costs, free cash flow in the quarter was $18 million compared to a negative free cash flow of $14 million in the prior year quarter. We expect our free cash flow to continue to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter given the timing of customer and vendor payments.

Now turning to guidance. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2026, we expect revenue to be in the range of $197.5 million to $198.5 million, which represents a year-over-year growth rate of approximately 23% at the midpoint. While we are not providing specific gross margin guidance, as a reminder, we expect higher seasonal activity during Q4 will impact gross margins consistent with historical patterns. Fourth quarter non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $12 million to $13 million. At the midpoint, this implies a non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 6%. Fourth quarter non-GAAP net income is expected to be $15 million to $16 million and fourth quarter non-GAAP net income per share in the range of $0.13 to $0.14 per share based on approximately 113 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding during the period.

For the full fiscal year 2026, we expect total revenue to be in the range of $730.5 million to $731.5 million, which represents a year-over-year growth rate of approximately 23% at the midpoint. Consistent with the commentary we provided on prior earnings calls, we expect Braze AI Decisioning Studio to contribute approximately 2 percentage points to year-over-year revenue growth for the full fiscal year. Fiscal year 2026 non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $26 million to $27 million. At the midpoint, this implies a non-GAAP operating margin of 3.5%, roughly a 350 basis point improvement versus fiscal year 2025. Non-GAAP net income for the same period is expected to be in the range of $46 million to $47 million, and net income per share is expected to be $0.42 to $0.43 per share based on a full year weighted average diluted share count of approximately 110 million shares.

While we will provide more formal guidance for fiscal year 2027 in March of next year, we expect to return to the profitability framework outlined at our last Investor Day, targeting a non-GAAP operating income margin of 8% for fiscal year 2027. It's an exciting time at Braze as our AI-driven solutions fundamentally rewrite the rules of customer engagement. We remain committed to offering industry-leading customer engagement solutions and driving product innovation as we execute on our long-term financial goals. And now we'll open the call for questions. Operator, please begin the Q&A.