CACI International Inc (CACI) Q2 2026 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

George Price - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
John Mengucci - President, CEO & Director
Jeffrey MacLauchlan - Executive VP, CFO, & Treasurer

Conference Call Participants

Gavin Parsons - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Peter Arment - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Colin Canfield - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Christopher Barbero - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Scott Mikus - Melius Research LLC
Tobey Sommer - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Jonathan Siegmann - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Mariana Perez Mora - BofA Securities, Research Division
John Godyn - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the CACI International Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

At this time I would like to turn the conference call over to George Price, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for CACI International. Please go ahead, sir.

George Price
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, Rob and good morning, everyone. I'm George Price, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for CACI International. Thanks for joining us this morning. We're providing presentation slides, so let's move to Slide 2.

There will be statements in this call that do not address historical fact and as such, constitute forward-looking statements under current law. These statements reflect our views as of today and are subject to important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from anticipated. Those factors are listed at the bottom of last night's press release and are described in the company's SEC filings. Our safe harbor statement is included on this exhibit and should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call. I would also like to point out that our presentation will include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures. These should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.

Let's go to Slide 3, please. To open our discussion this morning, here's John Mengucci, President and Chief Executive Officer of CACI International. John?

John Mengucci
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, George and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to discuss our second quarter fiscal year 2026 results as well as our updated fiscal 2026 guidance. With me this morning is Chuck McLaughlin, our Chief Financial Officer.

Slide 4, please. I'd like to start the call by reiterating our strategy, why CACI is a company that no longer fits within traditional industry labels and how we are expanding the limits of national security. You've heard us say many times, this strategy is a place we come from. Our strategy defines where we are going, what we are building and how we are executing with discipline and consistency. We serve 7 markets where we possess decades of mission knowledge, so we truly understand what our customers need. Within these markets, we focus on enduring national security priorities with narrow, deep funding streams. We differentiate ourselves by delivering software-defined technology to address critical needs with the speed, agility and efficiency our customers demand. We invest ahead of customer need to show them the art of the possible, exactly what the current administration is asking for.

We've been doing this for years. The market is coming to where we already are. Through deliberate actions, informed investments and flexible and opportunistic capital deployment, we have expanded our technology portfolio to nearly 60% of total revenue. Over the long term, we expect technology to continue to increase as a percentage of revenue and support margin expansion. I will share some additional information about 2 areas of our technology portfolio later in my remarks. Our results and accomplishments clearly demonstrate that CACI is not the company we were 10 years or even 5 years ago. We are continuing to evolve. It's why you see us competing and winning against a wider range of competitors, including defense primes and defense tech companies. It's why we're delivering consistent financial performance despite a dynamic and sometimes uncertain environment. And it's why we are confident we will continue to drive long-term shareholder value.

Slide 5, please. Speaking of performance, our strong second quarter results are another example of the success of our strategy and execution. We delivered free cash flow of $138 million, which was driven by revenue growth of 6% and EBITDA margin of 11.8%. We won $1.4 billion of awards, representing a book-to-bill of 0.65x for the quarter, 1.4x for the first half and 1.3x on a trailing 12-month basis. As a result of our strong first half performance, increased visibility and the continued momentum of the business, we are raising our fiscal 2026 guidance. Slide 6, please. Within technology, we have built a leading position in electronic warfare, which alone represents about $2 billion in revenue. We have also established CACI as an industry leader in Agile software development and software modernization, part of our enterprise technology portfolio.

And we recently announced a fantastic acquisition, ARKA, which represents the latest step in our technology-driven portfolio evolution and the execution of our space market strategy. These are all areas of significant and enduring investment by our customers, which support long-term growth for CACI. I'll spend some time talking about EW and enterprise technology. Our software-defined capabilities in electronic warfare illustrate how our strategy and technology-driven evolution are driving our performance. It's a critical warfighting domain in an area where we position CACI as a leader by investing ahead of need and delivering differentiated software-defined technology. We've known for years that virtually everything with a power button emits a signal. And today, we are seeing the significance of this in conflicts around the globe and how it's impacting our customers' priorities and their budgets.

We have developed and deployed proven technology that allows war fighters to sense, identify, locate and defeat these signals, whether through targeted non-kinetic effects or by tipping and cueing into other systems for kinetic [indiscernible]. Our software-defined approach provides increased speed, flexibility, lethality and the ability to adapt as threats evolve, exactly what's needed on the battlefields abroad and in defense of the homeland. We won a number of programs of record with the Army and the Navy, rapidly developing, delivering and fielding our EW technology. And based on that success, we see growing demand from other services, including the Air Force. An important benefit of our software-defined approach to EW is our ability to quickly adapt to new mission requirements, accelerate delivery of new capabilities and sell commercially through alternative acquisition models such as OTAs.

We previously highlighted Merlin and RMT, our latest counter-UAS and counter space systems as 2 examples of this concept. And customers are responding positively to these proactive investments, deploying a Merlin demo unit to the Southern border and placing the first production order for RMT. We've been saying for years that software would be the enabler of greater speed, agility, efficiency and lethality and we are proving it by rapidly addressing an expanding set of missions. This is a repeatable process. These successes are a clear validation of our strategy and differentiation and they position us well for additional opportunities and growth in the coming years.

Slide 7, please. Enterprise technology is another area where CACI is strategically positioned well ahead of market demand. The current administration has made modernization a clear priority to drive efficiency, transparency and operational improvement, as well as enhanced security. We've been focused on this for many years, investing in commercial Agile software development methodologies and building differentiated capabilities that are driving measurable results and significant value for our customers. That's why we've won the 3 largest Agile software development programs in the federal government. A great example is our work with Customs and Border Protection. We're not just modernizing software, we're delivering transformational efficiency, nearly 200% increase in software releases over the last 5 years, like-for-like cost reduction and exceptional software quality.

We're also bringing new AI software capabilities to CBP to help secure our borders, including AI-based object tracking technology that we initially developed for the intelligence community. This cross-pollination of innovation is a direct result of our strategic focus and investment approach. Slide 8, please. We continue to see constructive macro environment and good demand signals from our customers. While post-shutdown activity is still a bit uneven in the near term, our strategy has positioned CACI exceptionally well to outperform in this environment. As you know, 90% of our revenue comes from national security customers and we are seeing reconciliation funds starting to flow to several areas of our business.

As a result of our strong performance and continued business momentum, we are raising our fiscal year 2026 guidance. We now expect free cash flow of at least $725 million, revenue growth of nearly 8% to 10% and EBITDA margin in the 11.7% to 11.8% range. Finally, looking at our 3-year financial targets, we expect to exceed the $1.6 billion free cash flow target even after normalizing for the benefit from the changes to R&D capitalization from the One Big Beautiful Bill. As for our revenue and EBITDA margin targets, we are highly confident in our ability to hit the high end, if not exceed them. And I should note that none of our projections include any benefit from our planned acquisition of ARKA.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff.

Jeffrey MacLauchlan
Executive VP, CFO, & Treasurer

Thank you, John and good morning, everyone. Please turn to Slide 9. As John mentioned, we're pleased with our second quarter performance despite the lengthy government shutdown. Our revenue and awards generally reflect the modest shutdown disruption we expected, while our strong margin and cash flow highlight the enduring differentiated elements of our business enabled by our strategy and the deliberate actions that we've taken. In the second quarter, we generated revenue of $2.2 billion, representing 5.7% year-over-year growth, of which 4.5% was organic. While we saw some lingering impacts from the shutdown that impacted program timing and delayed some government material purchases in Q2, our confidence in raising our fiscal '26 guidance reinforces the broader strength that we're seeing.

EBITDA margin of 11.8% in the quarter represents a year-over-year increase of 70 basis points. This performance was driven primarily by strong program execution, timing of some higher-margin software-defined technology deliveries and overall mix. Second quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of $6.81 were 14% higher than a year ago. Greater operating income, along with a lower share count, more than offset higher interest expense and a higher income tax provision. Finally, free cash flow was $138 million for the quarter, driven by our strong profitability and increasing cash generation from working capital management. Days sales outstanding, or DSO, were 57 days.

Slide 10, please. Our leverage at the end of Q2 is 2.4x net debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA. We intentionally allowed leverage to drift slightly below our target range in anticipation of the acquisition of ARKA. As we announced in the call a month ago, we expect leverage to increase to 4.3x once the acquisition closes. I'll remind you, though, as I did on that call, that we have a strong track record of successfully and quickly delevering after major acquisitions, which is illustrated by our historical leverage we provide in the appendix. This underscores our consistent financial performance, disciplined approach to capital deployment and our demonstrated access to capital. In fact, we expect leverage to return to the low 3s within 6 quarters of closing ARKA, based on the strong cash flow characteristics of the combined business.

The acquisition of ARKA is just the latest example of our flexible and opportunistic capital deployment strategy and the evolution of our technology portfolio, which positions CACI to deliver long-term growth in free cash flow per share and additional shareholder value.

Slide 11, please. We're pleased to be increasing our fiscal '26 guidance across all metrics. We now expect revenue to be between $9.3 billion and $9.5 billion. This represents total growth of 7.8% to 10.1%, which includes slightly less than 2 points of growth from acquisitions. We're increasing our fiscal '26 EBITDA margin to be in the 11.7% to 11.8% range, underscoring our strong execution and continued evolving portfolio. As a result of our higher revenue and EBITDA margin outlook, we are also increasing our FY '26 adjusted net income guidance to be between $630 million and $645 million. This yields an attendant increase in adjusted EPS to between $28.25 and $28.92 per share, representing growth of 7% to 9% despite last year's unusually low tax rate.

And finally, we're increasing our free cash flow guidance to at least $725 million. As we consistently say, we see free cash flow per share as the ultimate value creation metric and our FY '26 guidance now implies a 65% growth in free cash flow per share. To assist you with your modeling, I'll note that for Q3 revenue, we're comfortable with the current consensus estimate and we expect second half EBITDA margin to be consistent with what we saw in the first half. As John mentioned, our guidance does not include any assumptions for ARKA. The increase is solely due to the continued strength and momentum of our current portfolio.

Slide 12, please. Turning to forward indicators. All metrics provide good long-term visibility into the strength of our business. Our second quarter book-to-bill of 0.65x and our trailing 12-month book-to-bill of 1.3x reflect good performance in the marketplace even with the protracted government shutdown and slow rebound in award decisions. The weighted average duration of our awards in Q2 was over 6 years. Our backlog of $33 billion increased 3% from a year ago and our funded backlog increased 7% for the same period. For fiscal year '26, we now expect 95% of our revenue to come from existing programs, with 3% coming from recompetes and 2% from new business. Progress on these metrics reflects our successful business development and operational performance and gives confidence in our higher expectations for the year.

In terms of pipeline, we have $6 billion of bids under evaluation, over 70% of which are for new business to CACI. We expect to submit another $20 billion in bids over the next 2 quarters with over 70% of those being for new business. In summary, we delivered strong results in the second quarter and continue to demonstrate our differentiated position in the marketplace. We are winning and executing high-value enduring work that supports long-term growth, increased free cash flow per share and additional shareholder value.

And with that, I'll turn the call back over to John.

John Mengucci
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Jeff. Let's go to Slide 13, please. In closing, I want to emphasize that our continued strong results are not by accident but rather the direct result of our deliberate strategy and execution. We built CACI to be resilient and differentiated, delivering strong performance despite the sometimes challenging macro dynamics. That's what happens when you focus on expanding the limits of national security. For us, this isn't just a phrase. It describes our relentless focus on anticipating tomorrow's challenges and developing solutions to stay ahead of our customers' needs, not just meet them. What truly differentiates CACI is our ability to shape the future rather than simply respond to it. We don't wait for RFPs. We proactively show our customers what's possible through strategic investments and innovation. This approach allows us to be disciplined in our shot selection, shaping opportunities where we know we can win.

As we look ahead, we remain confident in our ability to execute our strategy and deliver on our financial commitments. The momentum of our business, our healthy pipeline and our strong first half performance enable us to raise our fiscal 2026 guidance across all metrics. And with the pending addition of ARKA, we are further enhancing our position in the critical space domain, which will drive additional growth and shareholder value. As is always the case, our success is driven by our 26,000 employees who are ever vigilant in expanding the limits of national security. To everyone on the CACI team, I'm extremely proud of what you do every day for our company and our nation. And to shareholders, I thank you for your continued support of CACI.

With that, Rob, let's open the call for questions.

