Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Alex Kapper - Vice President of Investor Relations
Joseph Creed - CEO & Director
Andrew R. Bonfield - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Mircea Dobre - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Michael Feniger - BofA Securities, Research Division
David Raso - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Tami Zakaria - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Charles Albert Dillard - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Jamie Cook - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Jerry Revich - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Robert Wertheimer - Melius Research LLC
Kristen Owen - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2025 Caterpillar Earnings Conference Call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Alex Kapper. Thank you. Please go ahead.

Alex Kapper
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Audra. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Caterpillar's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. I'm Alex Kapper, Vice President of Investor Relations. Joining me today are Joe Creed, CEO; Andrew Bonfield, Chief Financial Officer; Kyle Epley, Senior Vice President of the Global Finance Services Division; and Rob Rengel, Senior Director of IR.

During our call, we'll be discussing the fourth quarter earnings release we issued earlier today. You can find our slides, the news release and a webcast recap at investors.caterpillar.com under Events and Presentations. The content of this call is protected by U.S. and international copyright law. Any rebroadcast, retransmission, reproduction or distribution of all or part of this content without Caterpillar's prior written permission is prohibited.

Moving to Slide 2. During our call today, we'll make forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. We'll also make assumptions that could cause our actual results to be different than the information we're sharing with you on this call. Please refer to our recent SEC filings and the forward-looking statements reminder in the news release for details on factors that individually or in aggregate could cause our actual results to vary materially from our forecast.

A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings. On today's call, we'll also refer to non-GAAP numbers. For a reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers to the appropriate U.S. GAAP numbers, please see the appendix of the earnings call slides.

For today's agenda, Joe will begin by sharing his perspectives about our results and provide an update on our performance toward achieving our Investor Day targets. Then he'll share our full year outlook and insights about our end markets, followed by an update on our strategy. Finally, Andrew will provide a detailed overview of results and key assumptions looking forward.

We'll conclude the call by taking your questions. Now let's advance to Slide 3 and turn the call over to our CEO, Joe Creed.

Joseph Creed
CEO & Director

All right. Well, thank you, Alex, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Our Centennial year marked a significant milestone, and we achieved full year sales and revenues of $67.6 billion, the highest in Caterpillar's history. In a dynamic environment, with net incremental tariff headwinds of $1.7 billion, we delivered full year adjusted operating profit margin within the target range at 17.2% and adjusted profit per share of $19.06. We also generated robust MP&E free cash flow of $9.5 billion in 2025, allowing us to deploy $7.9 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends during the year.

Our backlog grew to a record level of $51 billion, an increase of $21 billion or 71% compared to last year. All-time high sales and revenues, along with record backlog are evidence of the strength in our end markets and strong execution by our team.

Now let me take a minute to walk you through our fourth quarter results. Sales and revenues were $19.1 billion, an all-time record for a single quarter. The increase of 18% versus the previous year was better than we expected and reflects higher volumes in all 3 of our primary segments, while price realization was about neutral. In particular, volume growth was better than expected in Power and Energy as we were able to ship more product than anticipated at year-end.

Adjusted operating profit margin was 15.6% and adjusted profit per share was $5.16. Fourth quarter adjusted operating profit margin and adjusted profit per share were better than we anticipated due to stronger-than-expected volume growth in Power and Energy. In the quarter, the net incremental cost from tariffs was near the top end of our estimated range. Robust ordering activity across all 3 primary segments contributed to the very strong backlog growth.

Now I'll review fourth quarter retail statistics for each of our 3 primary segments, starting with Construction Industries. Construction Industries total sales users grew for the fourth consecutive quarter, rising 11%, which exceeded our expectations.

Increases in North America were better than expected due to strong growth in nonresidential and residential construction. Rental fleet loading and our dealers' rental revenue also grew in the quarter. Sales to users declined slightly in EAME and Asia Pacific, in line with our expectations, and we saw growth in Latin America, which was better than anticipated.

For Resource Industries, fourth quarter sales to users declined 7%, consistent with our expectations. Mining sales to users were lower year-over-year as customers exercise capital discipline in response to weaker coal prices. In Power and Energy, our largest and fastest-growing segment, sales to users grew a robust 37% with another quarter of double-digit growth across all applications.

Power generation grew 44%, driven by strong demand for large gen sets and turbines used in data center applications. Strong sales to users in oil and gas were driven primarily by turbines and turbine-related services. Industrial grew from relatively low levels with the increase driven by sales to users in electric power applications. And finally, transportation increased primarily due to international locomotive deliveries.

Moving to Slide 4. Our full year 2025 results showed meaningful progress towards achieving the 2030 targets we outlined at our recent Investor Day. As I mentioned, we delivered record sales and revenues of $67.6 billion, resulting in 4% year-over-year growth.

This increase was led by record sales in Power and Energy. Notably, in addition to record sales in power generation, we also achieved record sales in oil and gas due to strength in demand for gas compression. Despite tariff headwinds, full year adjusted operating profit margin of 17.2% was within the target range for our level of sales and revenues.

Full year services revenues totaled $24 billion in 2025. We continue to connect more assets, growing the fleet to over 1.6 million and made great progress in other initiatives like condition monitoring, prioritized service events, e-commerce sales and tech-enabled machines. Our digital and technology initiatives, along with a growing installed base, position us well to increase services revenues towards our goal of $30 billion by 2030.

Robust MP&E free cash flow allowed us to deploy $7.9 billion to shareholders through $5.2 billion of share repurchases and $2.7 billion of dividends paid. We're proud of our continued dividend aristocrat status, paying higher dividends for 32 consecutive years and remain committed to returning substantially all MP&E free cash flow over time. Andrew will share more about our cash deployment plans for 2026 in a moment.

Turning to Slide 5. I'll highlight the advancements we made towards our 2030 targets in our 3 primary segments. In 2025, Construction Industries growth outpaced the global industry, supported by the success of our merchandising programs.

As a result, full year total sales to users growth was 5%, advancing our progress towards the 2030 goal of growing 1.25x the 2024 baseline. In Resource Industries, customer interest in our autonomous hauling solution remains strong, and we're making steady progress towards our 2030 goal to triple the number of CAT autonomous haul trucks in operation compared to 2024. We ended the year with 827 autonomous haul trucks in operation, up from 690 at the end of 2024.

Adoption is expected to accelerate given our proven solution, our expansion into quarries and our ability to support mixed fleets. For example, last month, Caterpillar and [ SUTRAC, ] our dealer in Brazil, announced an agreement to provide Vale an autonomy solution for a mixed fleet of more than 90 trucks.

Power and Energy delivered meaningful progress towards our 2030 goal to more than double power generation sales compared to 2024. In 2025, power generation sales exceeded $10 billion, which is year-over-year growth of more than 30%. We're also on track in our multiyear effort to double our large engine capacity and more than double our industrial gas turbine capacity.

As we've discussed, the additional capacity will serve a broad range of applications, and the phasing will occur between now and the end of 2030.

Now on Slide 6, I'll provide our 2026 outlook. Overall, we anticipate full year sales and revenues to grow around the top of the 5% to 7% long-term compound annual growth rate target. As I mentioned earlier, our record backlog of $51 billion provides strong momentum to start the year.

We're also starting to get multiyear visibility in Power and Energy as we work closely with our customers to schedule factory orders in line with their project time lines. As a result, approximately 62% of our backlog is expected to deliver in the next 12 months, which is lower than our historical average.

The strong backlog, coupled with healthy end markets supports our expectation for volume growth in all 3 primary segments. We also expect all 3 segments to benefit from positive price realization, about 2% of total sales and revenues and continued growth in services revenues.

Full year adjusted operating profit margin should exceed 2025 levels but remain near the bottom of the target range for our expected sales and revenues. Our adjusted operating profit margin expectation reflects the ongoing impact of tariffs as well as investments we are making to execute our growth strategy.

I remain confident that we will manage the impact of tariffs over time as we aim to operate around the midpoint of our adjusted operating profit margin target range. Capital expenditures are expected to be around $3.5 billion, driven primarily by our capacity expansion plans. And finally, MP&E free cash flow is expected to be slightly lower than 2025, reflecting the increase in capital expenditures.

Now I'll discuss our outlook for key end markets, starting with Construction Industries. Another year of sales to users growth is expected in 2026, supported by elevated order rates and a robust backlog. Overall, the outlook for North America remains positive as sales to users grow moderately versus last year with construction spending remaining healthy due to IIJA funding and other critical infrastructure programs. We also anticipate accelerated investment in data centers, which will further bolster overall construction spending.

Dealer rental fleet loading and rental revenue are both projected to increase compared to 2025. In EAME, economic conditions in Europe are expected to strengthen and construction activity in Africa and the Middle East is projected to remain strong. In Asia Pacific outside of China, moderate economic conditions are expected in 2026.

We anticipate positive momentum in China off of low levels with full year growth in the above 10-ton excavator industry. Growth in Latin America is expected to continue at a similar rate to 2025.

Resource Industries had positive momentum in the fourth quarter with growing backlog supported by healthy orders across a broad range of products. For 2026, sales to users are expected to increase, primarily driven by rising demand for copper and gold and positive dynamics in heavy construction and quarry and aggregates. Most key commodities remain above investment thresholds and customer/product utilization is high, while the age of the fleet remains elevated.

With modest increases in commodity prices projected in 2026, we expect rebuild activity to increase slightly compared to last year.

And finally, for Power and Energy, the 2026 outlook is positive. Robust backlog growth in the fourth quarter was driven by continued momentum in both power generation and oil and gas. We anticipate growth in power generation for both CAT reciprocating engines and solar turbines driven by increasing energy demand to support data center build-out related to cloud computing and generative AI.

Additionally, we're starting to see orders for prime power trend higher as data center customers look for alternative power solutions to keep pace with their growth. For example, yesterday, we announced an order for 2 gigawatts of reciprocating generator sets for a prime power application from American Intelligence and Power Corporation.

Generators will be used to support the initial development phase of the Monarch Compute Campus, which has a total potential of about 8 gigawatts of power generation. This represents one of our largest single orders for complete power solutions. The value of the order will be reflected in our first quarter 2026 backlog, and we expect to deliver the generators starting in late 2026 through 2027. This exciting announcement is 1 of 4 orders we've booked with at least 1 gigawatt of Caterpillar equipment for data center prime power.

After reaching record levels in 2025, oil and gas is expected to see moderate growth in 2026. Reciprocating engine sales are expected to increase, driven by strong demand in gas compression applications. Solar Turbines oil and gas backlog remains healthy with continued solid order and inquiry activity.

And as a result, we expect another year of strong turbine sales comparable to our record 2025 performance. Demand for products and industrial applications is expected to grow moderately in 2026 as we see continued recovery from previous lows. And in transportation, we anticipate full year growth in rail services and locomotive deliveries.

I'll close on Slide 7 with an update on our strategy. Since our Investor Day in November, the executive leadership team and I have engaged our employees and dealers around the globe to launch our refreshed enterprise strategy for profitable growth. Our mission statement, solving our customers' toughest challenges is creating strong alignment around keeping customer needs at the center of everything we do.

The strategy is centered on 3 pillars for profitable growth, commercial excellence, being the advanced technology leader and transforming how we work, all built upon a foundation of continued operational excellence. I look forward to advancing the strategy with regional leaders and dealers throughout 2026.

And finally, we were excited to kick off the year with a showcase and keynote at CES 2026 in Las Vegas, where we unveiled the next era of industrial AI and autonomy. This was an important opportunity to demonstrate our advanced technology leadership by highlighting Caterpillar's significant role in creating the invisible layer of the tech stack, the critical minerals, reliable power and physical infrastructure that the digital world relies on to function.

We made exciting announcements, including the launch of our new Cat AI Assistant, which will allow customers to more easily buy, maintain, manage and operate their equipment. We also announced a commitment to the most important part of the invisible layer, people.

Caterpillar pledged $25 million to ensure the future workforce has the tools they need to make advanced technology possible.

With that, I'll turn it over to Andrew for a detailed overview of results and key assumptions looking forward.

Andrew R. Bonfield
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Joe, and good morning, everyone. As usual, I will begin with a summary of the quarter and then provide brief comments on the performance of the segments. Next, I will discuss the balance sheet and free cash flow and conclude with comments on our high-level planning assumptions for 2026 as well as our expectations for the first quarter.

Beginning on Slide 8. Sales and revenues of $19.1 billion reflected an 18% increase versus the prior year. As Joe noted, this was an all-time quarterly record. Adjusted operating profit was $3.0 billion, and our adjusted operating profit margin was 15.6%. We generated strong MP&E free cash flow of $3.7 billion in the quarter and $9.5 billion for the full year. This was our third consecutive year with more than $9 billion of MP&E free cash flow.

Moving to Slide 9. I'll discuss our top line results for the fourth quarter. Sales and revenues of $19.1 billion exceeded our expectations, driven by stronger-than-anticipated volume in Power and Energy. Versus the prior year, stronger sales volumes supported the sales increase.

Price was about neutral and roughly in line with our expectations. Volume growth reflected a 15% year-over-year increase in total sales to users and a favorable impact from changes in dealer inventories. Total machine dealer inventory decreased by about $500 million in the quarter compared to a $1.6 billion decrease decline last year. The decrease in the fourth quarter was larger than we had anticipated, primarily due to stronger-than-expected sales to users in Construction Industries. Services revenues increased in the quarter compared to 2024.

Moving to operating profit on Slide 10. Operating profit in the fourth quarter decreased by 9%, while adjusted operating profit of $3.0 billion was about flat versus the prior year. As I mentioned, adjusted operating profit margin for the fourth quarter was 15.6%, slightly stronger than we had anticipated, driven by volume being better than expected, partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense.

Versus the prior year, the 270 basis points decrease was primarily due to higher manufacturing costs driven by tariffs. Excluding tariffs, our fourth quarter margin was higher than the prior year. For the full year, excluding the impact of tariffs implemented in 2025, margin was in the top half of the target range.

Moving to Slide 11. Profit per share was $5.12 in the quarter. Adjusted profit per share was better than we had anticipated at $5.16, excluding restructuring costs of $0.52 and mark-to-market gains of $0.48 for the remeasurement of pension and other post employment benefit plans. When you exclude the impact of mark-to-market gains from other income and expense, we had a headwind of about $73 million, which was mainly driven by the absence of foreign exchange gains related to MP&E balance sheet translation that occurred in the prior year.

Excluding discrete items, the provision for income taxes in the fourth quarter of 2025 reflected a global annual effective tax rate of 24.1% as compared with 22.2% in 2024. This was in line with our expectations. Finally, the year-over-year impact from the reduction in the average number of shares outstanding, primarily due to share repurchases, resulted in a favorable impact on adjusted profit per share of approximately $0.14 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2024 and benefited the full year by about $0.66.

Moving to Slide 12. I'll now discuss the segment results. Construction Industries sales increased by 15% in the fourth quarter to $6.9 billion. This is roughly in line with our expectations as the stronger sales to users were about offset by a larger-than-expected decrease in dealer inventory and slightly unfavorable price realization.

Compared to the prior year, higher sales volume reflected stronger sales to end users and the positive impact from changes in dealer inventories. Dealer inventory decreased less during the fourth quarter of 2025 than during the fourth quarter of 2024. Fourth quarter profit for Construction Industries decreased by 12% versus the prior year to $1.0 billion.

The segment's margin was 14.9%, a decrease of 470 basis points versus the prior year. The margin decrease was primarily due to higher manufacturing costs, driven by tariffs, which had an impact of about 600 basis points on margins.

The margin was lower than we had expected due primarily to higher incentive compensation and a slightly unfavorable price realization, which offset the impact of stronger volume.

Turning to Slide 13. Resource Industries sales increased by 13% in the fourth quarter to $3.4 billion, which was in line with our expectations. Sales volume was slightly more favorable than we had anticipated while price realization was a slightly larger headwind than we had expected.

Compared to the prior year, the sales increase was primarily due to higher sales volume, driven by the impact from changes in dealer inventories. Fourth quarter profit for Resource Industries decreased by 24% versus the prior year to $360 million. The segment's margin of 10.7% was a decrease of 510 basis points versus the prior year, primarily due to higher manufacturing costs driven by tariffs, which had an impact of about 490 basis points.

The margin was lower than we had anticipated, primarily due to higher short-term incentive compensation, higher tariffs and a slightly unfavorable price realization.

Now on Slide 14. Power and Energy sales increased by 23% in the fourth quarter to $9.4 billion. Sales exceeded our expectations driven by stronger-than-anticipated volume, particularly in power generation and oil and gas.

Compared to the prior year, sales increased primarily due to higher sales volume and favorable price realization. Fourth quarter profit for Power and Energy increased by 25% versus the prior year to $1.8 billion. The segment's margin of 19.6% increased by 30 basis points versus the prior year on the higher volume. The tariff impact was about 220 basis points. The margin was stronger than we had anticipated, primarily due to favorable volume. Price was also slightly more favorable than we had anticipated.

Moving to Slide 15. Financial Products revenues increased by 7% versus the prior year to about $1.1 billion, primarily due to a favorable impact from higher average earning assets, partially offset by the impact from lower average financing rates. Segment profit increased by 58% to $262 million.

This was due in part to a favorable impact from higher margins at Insurance Services due to lower loss ratios. Higher average earnings and a lower provision for credit losses also benefited profitability. Our customers' financial health remains strong. Past dues were 1.37% in the quarter, down 19 basis points versus the prior year and our lowest year-end on record.

The allowance rate was 0.86%, the lowest ever reported in any quarter. Business activity at Cat Financial remains healthy. Retail credit applications increased by 6%, and our retail new business volume grew by 10% versus the prior year. In addition, demand for our used equipment remains healthy on relatively stable pricing, while inventories remain at historically low levels. Conversion rates remain above historical averages as more customers choose to buy equipment at the end of the lease term.

Moving to Slide 16. As I mentioned, we continue to generate strong MP&E free cash flow with $9.5 billion in 2025, which was slightly higher than 2024 despite an $800 million increase in capital expenditures.

In 2025, we deployed about $7.9 billion or 84% of our MP&E free cash flow to shareholders. We continue to expect to return substantially all MP&E free cash flow to shareholders over time. This quarter, we expect to enter into a larger accelerated share repurchase compared to the $3 billion ASR we executed in early 2025. Our balance sheet remains strong with an enterprise cash balance of $10.0 billion at the year-end.

In addition, we held $1.2 billion in slightly longer-dated liquid marketable securities to improve yields on that cash.

Now on Slide 17. Before I begin, I'll remind you that my comments today assume the Rail division is within Power and Energy, as was the case through year-end 2025. In March of this year, we will file an 8-K recasting our historical periods to reflect the movement of our Rail division to Resource Industries. This will establish an appropriate baseline for evaluating future segment level performance and expectations. If necessary, we will also update any of our segment-specific forward-looking assumptions impacted by this change. Obviously, there will be no impact on the enterprise-wide assumptions.

Now let me start with our expectations for the full year. As Joe mentioned, we expect enterprise sales and revenues to grow versus the prior year, likely around the top end of our 5% to 7% CAGR target on higher volume and favorable price realization.

We anticipate sales growth across each of our primary segments with Power and Energy delivering the strongest year-over-year rate of growth, supported by the robust backlog. Growth in this segment will be paced by the timing of bringing our capacity increases online over the next few years.

Our planning assumption is that the $500 million decline in machine dealer inventory in 2025 will be offset by an increase by the end of 2026, a tailwind to 2026 sales. As Joe mentioned, we expect favorable price realization to account for a roughly 2% increase in sales for the full year.

For perspective on the quarterly sales cadence, we anticipate the lowest sales of the year to occur in the first quarter, which aligns with our normal seasonable pattern.

On enterprise adjusted operating profit margin, excluding the impact of tariff costs, we expect to be in the top half of the target range at our anticipated sales level, supported by favorable price realization and volume.

Specific to volume growth, we anticipated the attributable profit pull-through or incremental margin to reflect our recent operational performance, which has been impacted by tariffs in contrast to prior years.

We are committed to investing for long-term profitable growth, which includes capacity investments, which will impact depreciation expense and higher technology and digital spend. We believe these investments will support future absolute OPACC dollar generation, which I'll remind you is our definition of winning.

Including the impact of tariffs, we expect margin to be near the bottom of the target range. I'll provide some perspective, but let me explain how we intend to report to you about tariffs as we move forward. The absolute dollar value of new tariffs imposed in 2025 was $1.8 billion.

Mitigating actions can come in 2 forms. First of those that reduce the direct tariff exposure bill, which will include actions like sourcing changes. These reduce the actual dollar value of tariffs paid. And second, there are cost control actions and pricing, which help reduce the impact on our profitability.

Most of the actions taken in 2025 related to cost controls, which could be specifically attributed to tariff mitigation, and these amounted to around $100 million, resulting in a net incremental tariff impact of $1.7 billion.

Looking forward, it will become increasingly challenging to parse out and track whether cost control or price action is directly tied to tariff mitigation versus being taken in the normal course of business. Therefore, going forward, we will report our absolute incremental tariff cost, which will only take into account those mitigating actions that reduce the absolute value of the tariff exposure.

As a reminder, the incremental tariffs we will report are measured against the 2024 base year. For the full year, incremental tariff costs are expected to be around $2.6 billion, which is $800 million higher than incurred in 2025. If we did not take the actions we plan to take in 2026, this bill will be around 20% higher.

We expect incremental tariff costs of around $800 million in the first quarter, a level similar to the fourth quarter of 2025. The run rate should improve towards the second half of the year as we take actions to reduce our tariff exposure.

Finally, please remember that tariffs are volume sensitive. We will continue to take actions to manage our costs in the normal course of business and remain committed to operate within our adjusted operating profit margin target range with the goal of being around the midpoint of the range over time.

Now concluding our expectations for the year. We expect restructuring costs of roughly $300 million to $350 million. Our global annual effective tax rate is anticipated to be 23%, excluding discrete items. MP&E free cash flow should be slightly lower than 2025, reflecting the higher CapEx of around $3.5 billion in 2026.

Now turning to Slide 18. To assist you with your modeling, I'll provide color on the first quarter. Starting with the top line, we would expect stronger sales and revenues versus the prior year. We anticipate stronger volume, including sales to users growth and a tailwind from machine dealer inventories.

We expect a more typical machine dealer inventory build this quarter, aligning with a seasonable pattern, which is the first quarter build in excess of $1 billion. This compares to flattish levels in the first quarter of 2025. We also anticipate a favorable impact from price realization.

In Construction Industries in the first quarter, we anticipate strong sales growth with the increase versus the prior year driven by volume and favorable price realization. We expect continued sales to users growth with our confidence supported by the strong order rates and backlog. In addition, we anticipate a sizable benefit from changes in dealer inventories given a more typical seasonable build in the first quarter.

In Resource Industries, we anticipate strong sales growth versus the prior year driven by volume, including healthy sales to users growth and a favorable impact from changes in dealer inventory. Price realization should be relatively flattish, though we anticipate favorability as we move through the year.

In Power and Energy, we anticipate sales growth versus the prior year, driven by strength in power generation and oil and gas, along with favorable price realization. As is typical, we expect first quarter sales in Power and Energy will be the segment's lowest of the year and sequentially lower than the fourth quarter of 2025. This expectation aligns the seasonable pattern.

Now I'll provide some color on our first quarter margin expectations. Excluding incremental tariff costs, we expect a higher adjusted operating profit margin percentage year-over-year, supported by strong volume and price realization, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs and SG&A and R&D expenses tied to our strategic investments.

As a reference, we would expect some seasonable margin uplift in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2025. Including incremental tariff costs at a level similar to the fourth quarter or around $800 million, margin is expected to be lower versus the prior year.

Now on to first quarter margin expectations by segment. In Construction Industries, excluding incremental tariff costs, we anticipate a higher margin percentage compared to the prior year on favorable price realization and volume, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs.

In Resource Industries, excluding incremental tariff costs, we anticipate slightly lower margin percentage compared to the prior year as favorable volume is more than offset by unfavorable manufacturing costs and higher SG&A and R&D expenses, including spend on strategic investments in autonomy.

We do anticipate some unfavorable mix impact as we expect proportionately higher sales of original equipment compared to the prior year. In Power and Energy, excluding incremental tariff costs, we anticipate a higher margin percentage compared to the prior year, driven by a favorable price volume and price realization, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs, particularly spend, including higher depreciation related to our capacity expansion projects.

During the first quarter, we anticipate around 50% of the incremental tariff costs will be in Construction Industries, 20% in Resource Industries and 30% in Power and Energy. All segment margins are expected to be lower than they were in the first quarter of 2025 after taking into account incremental tariffs.

So turning to Slide 19. Let me summarize. In a year marked by uncertainty, our team delivered record sales and revenues, maintained adjusted operating profit margin within our target range and achieved a healthy adjusted profit per share of $19.06.

We generated $9.5 billion of MP&E free cash flow, our third consecutive year of generating over $9 billion. For 2026, we anticipate sales growth across all 3 primary segments, driven by stronger volume and price. We also anticipate services revenue growth.

Excluding the impact of incremental tariffs, we expect adjusted operating profit margin to be at the top half of our target range but near the bottom, including tariffs. And we expect MP&E free cash flow to be slightly lower than 2025, reflecting slightly the higher capital expenditures. We continue to execute our strategy for long-term profitable growth.

And with that, we'll take your questions.

