Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (CCO) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Laura Kiernan
Scott Wells - CEO, President & Director
David Sailer - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Aaron Watts - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
David Karnovsky - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Lance Vitanza - TD Cowen, Research Division
Avi Steiner - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Daniel Osley - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Patrick Sholl - Barrington Research Associates, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions] Also, as a reminder, this conference call is being recorded today. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Laura Kiernan, VP of Investor Relations. Laura, please go ahead.

Laura Kiernan

Good morning, and thank you for joining our call. On the call today are Scott Wells, our CEO; and David Sailer, our CFO. They will provide an overview of the third quarter 2025 operating performance of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc.

We recommend that you download the third quarter 2025 earnings presentation located in the Financial Information section of our Investor Relations website and review the presentation during this call. After an introduction and review of our results, we will open the line for questions. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that during this call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding the company, including statements about its future financial performance and its strategic goals.

All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that management's expectations, beliefs or projections will be achieved or that actual results will not differ from expectations. Please review the statements of risk contained in our earnings press release and on our filings with the SEC.

During today's call, we will also refer to certain measures that do not conform to generally accepted accounting principles. We provide schedules that reconcile these non-GAAP measures with our reported results on a GAAP basis as part of the earnings presentation. When reviewing the earnings presentation, it is important to reiterate that all European and Latin American operations are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

This includes our current business in Spain, our former business in Brazil, which was sold on October 1, our former businesses in Mexico, Chile and Peru, which were sold on February 5; and our former Europe North segment, which was sold on March 31. Our reported consolidated results include the America and Airport segments and Singapore.

Also, please note that the information provided on this call speaks only to management's views as of today, November 6, 2025, and may no longer be accurate at the time of replay. Please see Slide 4 in the earnings presentation, and I will now turn the call over to Scott.

Scott Wells
CEO, President & Director

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for taking the time to join us today. Many thanks to those of you who were able to participate in our Investor Day in September. We hope you came away with a clear understanding of our vision, strategy and financial goals as we center all our efforts on accelerating our revenue growth in the U.S., increasing our cash generation and reducing debt.

Turning to our results. On a consolidated basis, we generated revenue of $405.6 million, representing a year-over-year increase of 8.1%. This was driven by record third quarter revenue levels in both segments. Our Americas segment grew 5.9% with our 18th consecutive quarter of year-over-year local revenue growth, and Airports delivered another great quarter with 16.1% year-over-year revenue growth.

We saw growth in key markets, including New York and San Francisco, in national and local sales channels and in digital and programmatic sales. Categories that continue to perform well across the company include banking, legal services and technology, including AI.

We remain on track to achieve our financial guidance for the year as we benefit from our focus on customer centricity, accelerating technology capabilities and sales execution and further strengthening our balance sheet. Our transition into a U.S.-focused company has improved our risk profile while allowing us to focus our management team on a range of initiatives to drive more business across our platform while pursuing operating efficiencies through our zero-based budgeting effort.

In addition to our financial results, we announced some important milestones during and shortly after the third quarter as we continue simplifying and derisking our company. On September 7, we entered into an agreement to sell our business in Spain to Atres Media for approximately $135 million. On October 1, we closed the sale of our business in Brazil for $15 million. Once the Spanish sale closes, we will have completed international divestitures worth nearly $900 million.

We also continue to derisk our capital structure and extend our debt maturity profile with the August debt refinancing. We continue to strategically reinvest in our business and our digital conversion plan remains key as we leverage our reach, data analytics capabilities and verticalized sales teams to expand our presence in the broader advertising market and gain share.

Last quarter, I spoke about the success we were having with pharma driven by our advances in technology, analytics and our go-to-market strategy. This quarter, I would like to share another example of how we are leveraging the power of our out-of-home scale to serve brands in major cities like New York with global events like the recent U.S. Open tennis tournament. For this year's tournament, we executed multiple campaigns for national advertisers looking to connect with the massive and highly attractive audience attending the U.S. Open. We delivered an unmatched advertising platform covering thousands of tennis fans throughout their journey from our inventory in the New York airports as they arrived to our newly expanded New York roadside inventory as they travel to and from the city and finally, through our high-profile inventory in and around city field, adjacent to the U.S. open venue.

Our business is increasingly surrounding live events with powerful advertising displays in dynamic and integrated ways. This is also a great example of how we're performing on our expanded New York inventory, and I'm pleased to announce that we're ahead of our internal projections for these assets. They are on track to be cash flow positive in year 1. We've lapped the fixed cost site lease headwind and expect to see accelerating growth as we've now fully incorporated them into our network.

Diving deeper into our airports platform to show the power of our inventory, a recent study by Nielsen Scarborough found that airports media is the perfect canvas on which to tell a brand story. According to the study, among frequent flyers who noticed airport advertising, 82% read the ads, 61% recalled seeing them and 57% took action after viewing an ad, a clear demonstration of the impact of this medium.

Additionally, the study shows that experiential marketing works well in airport settings and in-person brand experiences are highly appealing with 89% of frequent flyers wanting to sample food or beverages and 62% interested in trying new products they had seen advertised in airports. As we execute on our revenue-driving initiatives, we are also on track to deliver a further reduction in our corporate costs. This is enabled by a combination of direct savings related to the sale of our international businesses as well as the additional efficiency opportunities stemming from our zero-based budgeting efforts, as I previously noted. We are on track to deliver the $50 million in corporate cost savings announced during our Investor Day.

To sum it up, our business remains healthy in the fourth quarter, and we are on track to deliver on our financial guidance for the year. We now have 90% of our Q4 revenue guidance under contract and our business pipeline remains strong. In addition, we remain on track in pursuing the multiyear goals we discussed at Investor Day of 6% to 8% adjusted EBITDA growth, $200 million in AFFO and net leverage of 7 to 8x by the end of 2028. So the future looks bright for our company as we actively pursue what we believe is a substantial opportunity to unlock shareholder value as a U.S. focused organization and leader in our space. And with that, I will turn the call over to Dave for the financial review.

David Sailer
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Scott. On to Slide 5 for an overview of our results. The amounts I refer to are for the third quarter of 2025 and the percent changes are the third quarter 2025 compared to the third quarter of 2024, unless otherwise noted. Our results this quarter continued the steady trend we've seen all year with solid revenue growth and strong liquidity, positioning us well to achieve our year-end guidance. Consolidated revenue for the quarter was $405.6 million, an 8.1% increase, in line with our guidance. The increase was driven in part by strong digital revenue and growth across all sales channels. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $132.5 million, up 9.5% and AFFO was $30.5 million, up 62.5%, both within our expectations.

On to Slide 6 for the Americas segment third quarter results. America revenue was $310 million, up 5.9%, in line with guidance. The increase reflected growth across both print and digital revenue with continued benefit from the MTA Roadside billboard contract and improvements in the San Francisco Bay Area. Mobile sales were up 5.7% and national sales were up 6.1% on a comparable basis. Segment adjusted EBITDA was $133.4 million, up 3.9% with a segment adjusted EBITDA margin of 43.1%.

Please see Slide 7 for a review of the third quarter results for Airports. Airports delivered another great quarter with revenue of $95.6 million, up 16.1%, in line with guidance. The increase was driven by digital revenue up 37.4% and strong performance in national sales, which grew 25.2%. Mobile sales were up 3% on a comparable basis. Segment adjusted EBITDA was $21.9 million, up 29.2% with a segment adjusted EBITDA margin of 22.9%.

Moving on to Slide 8. CapEx totaled $13.2 million in the third quarter, down 25.9%, driven by lower digital spend and reduced contractual spend on shelters. Now on to Slide 9. We ended the quarter with liquidity of $366 million, which includes $155 million of cash and $211 million available under the revolvers. Following the amendments of our revolving credit facilities in the second quarter, which extended maturities through June 2030, we completed a $2.05 billion senior secured note offering in August, refinancing $2 billion of existing notes and increasing our weighted average time to maturity to 4.8 years at the time of the refinancing.

Through this refinancing and our second quarter debt buybacks, we have maintained essentially flat annualized cash interest, and this does not include interest savings of approximately $28 million from the prepayment of the CCIBV term loans. Now on to Slide 10 and our guidance for the fourth quarter and full year of 2025.

For the fourth quarter, we expect consolidated revenue to be within $441 million to $456 million, representing a 3% to 7% increase over the same period in the prior year. We expect America revenue to be within $322 million to $332 million, representing a 4% to 7% increase over the same period in the prior year and Airports revenue to be within $119 million to $124 million, representing a 3% to 7% increase over the same period in the prior year.

Given our year-to-date performance and our outlook for the fourth quarter, we've tightened our consolidated full year revenue guidance range. We now expect consolidated revenue to be within $1.584 billion to $1.599 billion for the year, representing a 5% to 6% increase over the prior year. We continue to expect full year adjusted EBITDA to be within $490 million to $505 million, up 3% to 6% from last year, and we now expect full year AFFO to be within $85 million to $95 million, up 45% to 62% from last year. And we continue to expect full year CapEx to be within $60 million to $70 million. And following our recent capital markets transactions, we continue to anticipate future annualized cash interest of approximately $390 million, assuming no additional activity.

As we discussed during Investor Day, we are powering our cash flow flywheel, including growing revenue, expanding margins, increasing AFFO and reducing debt. Through this meaningful debt reduction, we are actively converting enterprise value from debt to equity. And now let me turn the call back to Scott before we take your questions.

Scott Wells
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Dave. To summarize, we believe we are at a pivotal moment with industry trends in our favor, irreplaceable premium inventory and strong digital capabilities that together create real growth opportunities. The disruption in search and linear TV ad markets makes this the most exciting ad market in which we've operated. As the last mass visual medium with increasing analytic firepower, our industry is poised to gain share if we do the things we need to do. I believe we are doing those things and excited about the opportunities that lie ahead. To that end, I want to thank our company-wide team for their continued dedication and hard work as we pursue this great opportunity.

We are confident in our ability to achieve our near-term guidance and long-term goals, including sustainable top line growth, expanded margins and meaningful deleveraging in line with what we discussed on our Investor Day. For those of you who don't recall, we described adjusted EBITDA growth of approximately $115 million by year-end 2028 and applied our then current multiple, yielding value creation of roughly $1.3 billion. We added to that further debt paydown of about $400 million in the same time frame. Taken together, we see this as an opportunity for value creation of approximately $1.7 billion for shareholders based on the plan we laid out with further upside if we realize some of the discontinuities we discussed or see improvement in our valuation multiple.

With a streamlined business and a growing digital portfolio, we expect to enter 2026 from a position of strength. And now we welcome your questions. Operator?