Ciena Corporation (CIEN) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 11, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Gregg Lampf - Vice President of Investor Relations
Gary Smith - CEO, President & Director
Marc Graff - Senior VP & CFO
Scott McFeely - Executive Advisor

Conference Call Participants

Ruben Roy - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Simon Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Atif Malik - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
George Notter - Wolfe Research, LLC
Tal Liani - BofA Securities, Research Division
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Timothy Long - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Ryan Koontz - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to Ciena's Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2025 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Gregg Lampf, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Gregg Lampf
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Drew. Good morning, and welcome to Ciena's 2025 Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Year-end Results Conference Call. On the call today is Gary Smith, President and CEO; and Marc Graff, CFO. Scott McFeely, Executive Adviser, is also with us for Q&A.

In addition to this call and the press release, we have posted to the Investors section of our website an accompanying investor presentation that reflects this discussion as well as certain highlighted items for the fiscal quarter and year-end.

Our comments today speak to our recent performance, our view on current market dynamics and drivers of our business as well as a discussion of our financial outlook. Today's discussion includes certain adjusted or non-GAAP measures of Ciena's results of operations. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to our GAAP results is included in today's press release.

Before turning the call over to Gary, I'll remind you that during this call, we'll be making certain forward-looking statements. Such statements including our quarterly and annual guidance, commentary on market dynamics and discussion of our opportunities and strategy are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions regarding the company and its markets, which include risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the statements discussed today.

Assumptions relating to our outlook, whether mentioned on this call are included in the investor presentation that we posted earlier today, are an important part of such forward-looking statements, and we encourage you to consider them.

Our forward-looking statements should also be viewed in the context of the risk factors detailed in our most recent 10-Q and in our upcoming 10-K filing. Ciena assumes no obligation to update the information discussed in this conference call, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. As always, we will allow for as much Q&A as possible today, though we ask that you limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Gary.

Gary Smith
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Gregg, and good morning, everyone. Today, we reported record fiscal fourth quarter and full year revenue of $1.35 billion and $4.77 billion, respectively. These records are a direct result of our sustained, purposeful investment and focus on leading high-speed connectivity technologies, together with disciplined execution and deep collaboration with our customers.

Combined, these advantages have positioned and will continue to position Ciena to deliver value in the AI ecosystem, serving both cloud and service provider customers for many years to come. And our progress in driving value from our operating model is also reflected in Q4 earnings per share of $0.91, up 69% year-over-year and full year EPS of $2.64, up 45% from fiscal 2024.

And lastly, we generated record orders for the year of $7.8 billion, which resulted in our entering this year, again, with record backlog. These strong results really underscore our overall market leadership position as well as the ramping broad-based demand across our business. And to this point, I'd like to provide some insights into what we believe to be robust and durable demand over the next several years.

Firstly, we continue to see accelerating demand from our cloud customer providers. And that includes the large hyperscalers and the emerging neoscaler segment that we talked with you about last quarter. In fact, cloud providers today are as focused on scaling their network as they are on their access to power.

Orders from cloud providers are very strong, and ramping across our portfolio and they constitute a substantial portion of our growing backlog. It's important to note that this accelerating demand is being driven by several dynamics. And as counterintuitive as it may seem, the cloud providers largely actually underinvested in their networks to date, particularly relative to other areas of AI infrastructure.

The major hyperscalers who are seeing rapid traffic growth not only have the capital to invest but also have real sustainable business models that are currently constrained by the need to dramatically scale their global networks. These cloud providers cannot and do not intend to strengthen their significant investments in AI-related data center infrastructure.

And I would stress that, that traffic needs to leave the data center to be monetized and operationalized, and we are their strategic technology partner for those network requirements. Secondly, demand from our service provider customers continues to grow steadily as they, too, reinvest in their transport infrastructure after years of digesting accumulated inventory and also focused on other areas of their networks, most notably and specifically 5G.

In addition, service providers' businesses are also being fueled by AI through the enterprise cloud demand and specifically cloud providers need for Managed Optical Fiber Networks or MOFN. And as a proof point here, we have recently won and are working to deploy a large MOFN project in India with 2 service providers for a major hyperscaler. Additionally, in the quarter, we have secured multiple major MOFN wins in other regions, including several in new and emerging geographies for our business.

And as a result of these dynamics, service provider orders were up nearly 70% for the year. And in fact, our top 3 service providers revenue from '24 to '25 grew 16%. Due to the increasing momentum across both cloud and service providers, Ciena's optical market share has continued to grow and extend our overall leadership, adding 2 points year-to-date, and we expect further gains clearly in 2026.

In order to address this accelerating demand, we are committed to increasing investments and working with our supply chain partners to scale the business. With product delivery lead times extending in the face of this unprecedented demand, we are proactively expanding our capacity to ensure our ability to timely meet our customers' demands. Indeed, this has already yielded results for fiscal '25 as we delivered double our initial revenue growth expectations for the year. Marc will discuss how we are stepping up investments to support demand and the expanding opportunities we expect over the coming years.

The simple truth is that AI continues to drive network expansion across all our customer segments, and the scale of investment currently underway is massive and accelerating faster than anything we or indeed the industry have seen to date. I would also mention that unlike the COVID-inspired supply-demand imbalance, we are seeing this demand be installed and leveraged for real near-term revenue opportunities at our customers as evidenced by accelerated implementation services that increased in revenue by 34% in fiscal '25.

With that, I'd like to take a moment to share our sort of broader perspectives on the AI opportunity as it relates to high-speed connectivity. As bandwidth continues to grow inside the data center and as this traffic flows out of the data center, AI inference models are moving closer to the network edge. And for the reasons that I mentioned earlier, we will continue to expand our existing leadership and addressable market in high-speed connectivity in the WAN.

In addition to the wide area network, we're also seeing a significant addressable market opportunity in the -- in and around the data center. It is, I think, well understood that cloud providers are investing heavily in data centers to deliver on the current and future promises of AI. Many third parties are estimating capital spending of more than $7 trillion through the end of the decade in all AI-related infrastructure. And this is obviously necessitating the need for both training and inference workloads at massive scale.

As a result of the massive growth in AI workloads and to address growing power and space constraints, cloud providers are planning and building distributed AI data center training clusters or AI factories, which require multiple clusters to act as one. In fact, along with those power and space constraints, the ability of the cloud providers and specifically the major hyperscalers to scale their global networks is becoming the critical long pole in the tent for them to operationalize AI for both training and inference purposes.

Within these data center environments, there are 3 key connectivity requirements to scale up within a data center rack, to scale out between racks in a data center, and finally, to scale across between geographically distributed data centers, which must operate at the highest levels of performance with super high capacity and the lowest latency possible.

With our innovation and time-to-market leadership in high-speed connectivity solutions, our position could not be better to fulfill this critical demand. This growing AI-driven opportunity for Ciena is what we refer to as in and around the data center. In fact, our in and around the data center opportunities grew threefold from '24 to '25 and are a major contributor to our '26 expected growth rate.

We have proactively invested in our portfolio to intersect this growing market segment and with a few notable examples. First is our interconnects portfolio, comprising both our power and space savings ZR and ZR+ pluggables and our optical components. We expect Interconnects to play a meaningful role in scale up, scale out and, in fact, scale across workloads.

In fiscal year '25, we surpassed our target of more than doubling FY '24 pluggable revenue, reaching revenue of more than $168 million. In the quarter, our WaveLogic 6 Nano 800-gig pluggables are shipped for initial revenue. And since the end of the quarter, we have shipped 800 ZR plugs to 3 additional cloud providers for testing and certification.

And with regard to components, we address the cloud providers preferred disaggregated consumption model with our high-speed Coherent and other industry-leading WaveLogic technologies including a DSP, [ Curtis ], and other high-speed analog and electro optical components. In addition, our Components business now includes the electrical and optical interconnect solutions from our acquisition of Nubis Communications. The Nubis' technologies and expertise will help us address the scale-up and scale-out opportunities inside the data center. We're excited to have the Nubis team as part of Ciena and are on track to GA the first products in fiscal '26.

And as we've previously noted, as technology advances and data rates increase, the components portion of our interconnects portfolio primarily represents revenue opportunities beyond fiscal '26. In addition to our Interconnects portfolio, as market needs continue to evolve, driven by AI, we're seeing new architectural applications arise in and around the data center. With 2 recent cloud provider use cases, I think, of particular note.

First use case is the scale across architecture, linking geographically dispersed AI training clusters using our market-leading RLS photonic line system, Wave servers and Interconnects portfolio. This is an opportunity we discussed over the past couple of quarters, where a large hyperscaler is linking to 2 regional data centers to build an AI backbone. I'm pleased to report that this hyperscaler is now extending this architecture to more locations.

Additionally, I am pleased to announce that 2 more major hyperscalers have chosen our optical solutions for their scale across training applications as well. The second use case is Out-of-Band network management. Ciena's unique DCOM solution leverages our XGS-PON and other routing and switching products and was initially designed with Meta to meet hyperscale requirements. Today, I'm pleased to announce that our DCOM business with Meta has expanded as they plan to deploy in multiple new data centers.

Also, we're engaged in advanced technical discussions with additional hyperscalers to deploy this DCOM solution in their data centers. I'd like to briefly acknowledge here that the scale across and DCOM wins are just the most recent AI-related use cases to materialize for us in recent months. They are great examples of how we co-create and productize with market-leading solutions to address critical customer scaling requirements. And we fully anticipate continuing to develop additional innovative solutions with our customers as they monetize AI across the various architectures.

Before I turn it over to Marc, I really want to reiterate that as we leave Q4 and indeed the entirety of 2025, we have absolute conviction that the positive market dynamics and our technology leadership provides us with increasing confidence that the durability of demand and our business and financial trajectory are very strong.

I'll now hand it over to Marc for a closer look at our Q4 and fiscal '25 performance and outlook. Marc?

Marc Graff
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you, Gary, and thank you to everyone for joining the call this morning. Before I review the specific results for Q4 and the full year, I'd like to provide an update on the priorities I outlined in the last earnings call, specifically gross margin performance, working capital management and capital allocation.

First, gross margin performance. You have seen that our Q4 gross margin sequentially improved and exceeded [indiscernible] our guide by 90 basis points. This was largely due to higher revenue and software mix. We have had constructive discussions with our customers to improve fair value exchange with those improvements appearing in late '26 given the large backlog entering the year. Additionally, we are navigating through particular headwinds from ramping NPI products and rising input costs as supply becomes further constrained due to fast-growing demand. All told, I expect year-over-year gross margin improvements with second half margins being higher than first half margins.

Second, working capital management. We have improved our cash conversion cycle by 34 days sequentially, largely on faster collections and improved inventory days. In fact, our inventory turns improved by 0.4 of a turn. We left the year with $1.4 billion in cash after generating $371 million in cash from operations in Q4 and free cash flow of $326 million.

With respect to capital allocation, we completed the first year of our most recent $1 billion stock repurchase authorization, repurchasing approximately $330 million for the year at an average price of $83.34. We invested $140 million in capital expenditures in the business focused on developing the next generation of leading products and enabling capacity to nearly double our 2025 growth rate.

We also completed the cash purchase of Nubis, supplementing our Interconnects portfolio to service the end portion of in and around the data center opportunity. We have also reallocated resources that will allow the company to meet the growth challenges ahead with new business processes and technology rationalization.

Finally, let me turn to operating leverage. We will hold to our commitment of flat OpEx in 2026, while investing in new opportunities for our Interconnects portfolio.

Now let me turn to the specifics of our Q4 and full year performance. As Gary noted, Q4 revenue reached $1.35 billion, up 20% year-over-year and $70 million above the midpoint of our guide. For the year, annual revenue was up 19% to $4.77 billion, a new record. Q4 was strong across all lines of business. Specifically, our Optical business was up 19% year-over-year, driven by strength in RLS, which was up 72% year-over-year.

Our Routing and Switching business grew 49% year-over-year, with the 3,000 and 5,000 series product revenue doubling on a combined basis with the DCOM opportunity driving much of this growth. Global Services had a strong quarter, growing 25% year-over-year driven largely by advisory and enablement and installation and implementation services, which grew 53% and 45% year-over-year, respectively.

I'd also like to note that Blue Planet had a very successful year, achieving $34 million of revenue in the quarter, a record $115 million in fiscal '25 and achieving full year profitability. We had 3 10% revenue customers in Q4, including 2 global cloud providers and 1 Tier 1 North American service provider.

We are exiting the year with about $5 billion of backlog, of which approximately $3.8 billion is hardware and software with the remaining being services. This backlog supports a large share of our fiscal '26 revenue expectations, and we see indications of strong demand continuing into '27 and beyond, giving us exceptional visibility and confidence in our outlook and medium-term expectations.

Adjusted gross margin in Q4 was 43.4%, 90 basis points above the midpoint of our guide, driven by higher revenue and software mix. For the year, adjusted gross margin was 42.7%. We continue to mitigate most of the impacts of tariffs as we currently constructed and the net impact of tariffs are immaterial to our bottom line. We continue to monitor the situation and work closely with both our supply chain and customers as necessary.

Q4 adjusted operating expense was approximately $409 million and $1.51 billion for the year. Excluding the higher incentive compensation, we achieved in-line OpEx for the quarter and underspent slightly for the year, reflecting our ongoing disciplined approach and operational efficiency. This led to Q4 adjusted operating margin of 13.2%, up 250 basis points sequentially and 320 basis points year-over-year.

Operating margin for the year reached 11.2%, 150 basis points from fiscal '24. We achieved EPS of $0.91, up 69% year-over-year with annual adjusted EPS of $2.64, up a healthy 45%. Finally, cash from operations was $371 million in the quarter. For the year, free cash flow reached $665 million after $140 million in capital expenditures.

Now turning to guidance. Last quarter, our confidence and visibility due to AI-driven dynamics enabled us to atypically provide an early outlook for 2026. As we move into the new fiscal year for all the reasons Gary and I have discussed, those dynamics and the customer demand environment not only remain robust, they have accelerated. As a result, today, I'd like to update that guidance from September as our outlook has improved even from just a few months ago. We now expect revenue in fiscal '26 to be approximately $5.7 billion to $6.1 billion or nearly 24% annual growth at the midpoint versus the 17% growth rate discussed in September. We continue to expect gross margins for fiscal '26 to be in the range of 43%, plus or minus 1 point.

And as I mentioned earlier, we continue to work to mitigate input cost pressures through supply rebalancing, designing costs out and additional pricing actions over time. We expect the impact of these mitigation efforts will be realized in late fiscal '26. With these dynamics, we expect the margins to improve first half to second half as cost reductions and pricing actions take hold.

We expect adjusted operating expense in fiscal '26 to be flat at approximately $1.52 billion after accounting for the Nubis operating expenses post acquisition. With respect to operating margin, we previously advised an acceleration of our longer-term goal of 15% to 16% operating margin from [ '27 ] into 2026. We now expect fiscal '26 operating margins to improve further to 17% plus or minus 1 point.

Our capital expenditures for fiscal '26 are expected to be between $250 million and $275 million. This is higher than our typical capital intensity in order to invest in supporting expected robust demand in late 2026 and into 2027 as well as incremental costs for 3-nanometer mask sets.

In fiscal '26, we expect to repurchase approximately $330 million in shares under our 2024 stock repurchase authorization plan.

Finally, with respect to Q1 guidance, we expect to deliver revenue in the range of $1.35 billion to $1.43 billion, adjusted gross margin between 43% and 44% and adjusted operating expenses of approximately $380 million yielding an operating margin of 15.5% to 16.5%.

To conclude, Ciena had a strong 2025, and we are looking to an even stronger 2026. We are thoughtfully allocating our owners' capital to deliver value both to our customers and for our owners. We are singularly focused on executing our strategy and winning in the market.

And with that, let me turn it back to Gary.

Gary Smith
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Marc. And let me reiterate those comments. We had an incredibly strong quarter in fiscal 2025, which we believe is a seminal one for Ciena, and one that provides a remarkable springboard for continued growth.

Our momentum continues to build. Our balance sheet has never been stronger, and industry dynamics have never been more positive for Ciena. We are executing well and have high confidence we will continue to do so. We remain very focused on our strategy and continued to deliver the world's best high-speed connectivity, that really underpins today's AI-driven environment.

With that, we will now take questions from the sell-side analysts. Thank you.