Compass Diversified (CODI) Q3 2025 Earnings Call January 14, 2026 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Ben Avenia-Tapper - Vice President of Investor Relations
Elias Sabo - CEO & Director
Patrick Maciariello
Stephen Keller - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Lance Vitanza - TD Cowen, Research Division
Lawrence Solow - CJS Securities, Inc.
Timothy D'Agostino - B. Riley Securities, Inc., Research Division
Matt Koranda - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Cristopher Kennedy - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and welcome to Compass Diversified's Fiscal 2025 Third Quarter Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ben Tapper, Vice President, Investor Relations. Ben, please go ahead.

Ben Avenia-Tapper
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, and welcome to Compass Diversified's Third Quarter 2025 Conference Call. Representing the company today are Elias Sabo, CODI's Chief Executive Officer; and Stephen Keller, CODI's Chief Financial Officer. We are also joined by Zach Sawtelle, Chief Operating Officer for Compass Group Management; and Pat Maciariello, who recently retired after 20 years with CGM.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that during the course of this call, CODI will make certain forward-looking statements, including discussions of forecasts and targets, future business plans, future performance of CODI and its subsidiaries and other forward-looking statements regarding CODI and its financial results. Words such as believes, expects, anticipates, plans, projects, should, and future or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

While these statements present our best current judgment about future results, performance and plans as of today, our actual results and operations are subject to many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and operations to differ materially from what we expect. Except as required by law, CODI undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise. In addition to any risks that we highlight during this call, important factors that may affect our future results, performance and plans are described in our recent SEC filings and press release.

During the call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please note that references to EBITDA in the following discussions refer to adjusted EBITDA as reconciled to net income or loss from continuing operations in CODI's press release and SEC filings. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Elias Sabo. Elias?

Elias Sabo
CEO & Director

Thank you, Ben, and good afternoon, everyone. With today's filing, we are now current with our SEC filings for 2025. We're also back in compliance with the reporting requirements under our credit facility and bond indentures, and we're returning to a more normal operating cadence. It's been a long road thus far, and I want to thank everyone for their patience throughout this process. We appreciate the support you've shown as we work through it.

Before I discuss our performance, I want to give you all a quick update on some organizational changes that have occurred at Compass Group Management, our external manager. After 20 years of dedicated service, Pat Maciariello retired at the end of 2025. Pat has been an integral member of CGM's senior leadership team, and it's been a pleasure to work alongside him over the years. Stepping into the role of COO for CGM is Zach Sawtelle. Zach has been with CGM since 2009, most recently as the leader of our East Coast office. He's been instrumental in many of CODI's most successful acquisitions in his tenure and currently chairs the Boards of BOA, PrimaLoft, Altor and Sterno.

I'm thrilled to have him take on this role, and I'm confident his leadership will support continued execution by all of our subsidiaries. Before we move on, I'll pass the call to Pat to say a few words. Pat, over to you.

Patrick Maciariello

Thanks, Elias. It's hard to put 20 years into a few words, but I'll try. Working with the CODI team has been one of the most meaningful chapters in my life, and I want to thank each and every employee, manager and partner at Compass. I'm also grateful to the employees in each of our current and past subsidiaries. Your professionalism and hard work were evident every day. I would also like to express my gratitude to the executive teams at each subsidiary business. I have learned and continue to learn from each of you as you have modeled drive, leadership and character. Working with you has been the highlight of my career, and I will be forever grateful for the opportunity. I look forward to watching all of your continued successes from afar. Thank you.

Elias Sabo
CEO & Director

Thank you, Pat. On behalf of everyone at Compass, thank you for your leadership and partnership over the years. Best of luck in your next chapter. I'll now turn to our year-to-date results and share a few operating highlights from our subsidiaries. Then I'll close with the steps we're taking to drive long-term shareholder value.

From a macroeconomic perspective, 2025 was a year marked by uncertainty driven by geopolitical risks and a fluid tariff environment. Despite that volatility, our subsidiaries, excluding Lugano, delivered mid-single-digit growth in subsidiary adjusted EBITDA through the first 3 quarters of 2025. That's consistent with the expectations we laid out at the beginning of the year. And while Lugano remains included in our reported results for the period, our focus today is on our 8 other subsidiaries. Our solid performance reflects the disciplined execution of our subsidiary management teams as well as the attractive positions our businesses hold in their respective markets. Across CODI, we own and operate high-quality, well-managed middle-market businesses that can perform through a range of economic environments.

Now let me walk through what we're seeing in each vertical and share a few examples of how our teams are driving results. Year-to-date, sales in our consumer vertical grew low single digits. BOA continues to drive significant penetration in multiple applications, including snow sports, cycling, workwear and protective headwear. The precision and performance of the BOA Fit system is unmatched. The Honey Pot is now one of the fastest-growing feminine care brands, driving continued share gains and category growth. The team has successfully launched innovative products and is taking share from legacy brands in the feminine care category. We believe this reflects the long-term appeal of better-for-you products as well as the strength of our brand, supporting strong double-digit EBITDA growth.

5.11 moved quickly to adapt to the evolving tariff environment, using supply chain actions and targeted pricing to protect performance while continuing to invest selectively to broaden the brand's reach. Year-to-date, our industrial vertical delivered mid-single-digit sales growth, supported by Altor's 2024 acquisition of Lifoam. In 2025, the rare earth magnetics market saw meaningful disruption that we believe creates a compelling long-term opportunity for Arnold. Demand for a more geopolitically secure rare earth supply chain continues to rise, while intermittent export restrictions have increased volatility. These export restrictions created short-term headwinds in 2025, but we believe they also reinforce the long-term tailwinds for the business as reflected in Arnold's growing backlog.

Today, Arnold is one of only a handful of companies producing samarium cobalt magnets in the U.S. These magnets play an essential role in the most demanding aerospace and defense applications where supply chain security and performance reliability are critical. Finally, Sterno continues to deliver double-digit EBITDA growth, driven by strength in its core foodservice offering. The Sterno management team continues to drive efficiency, including optimizing sourcing and production locations to navigate the tariff environment. These are just a handful of the accomplishments across both verticals.

Before I hand it over to Stephen, I want to reiterate our commitment to all of our stakeholders. Now that we have completed the Lugano investigation and restated our financials, we are focused on execution and on delivering consistent long-term shareholder value. While our priority remains reducing leverage to mitigate risk and ensure long-term financial flexibility, we recognize the need to drive shareholder returns, and we are taking steps to position ourselves to be able to efficiently and prudently return capital to shareholders. We believe that our current valuation represents a significant discount to the intrinsic value of our underlying businesses. If this disconnect persists, we will factor that in as we consider the greatest risk-adjusted return opportunities, including the efficient return of capital.

The bottom line is that we are committed to a better outcome for all of our stakeholders. With that, I'll now turn it over to Stephen.

Stephen Keller
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Elias. As a reminder, our reported results still include Lugano Holdings, unless otherwise stated. Lugano will be included in our consolidated results through November 16, 2025, the date that entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings and will be deconsolidated thereafter. For the third quarter, net sales were $472.6 million, up 3.5% year-over-year. GAAP net loss for the quarter was $87.2 million, which includes expenses related to the Lugano investigation as well as Lugano's operations.

Now given the timing of this call and because this is the first time we publicly discussed our 2025 results, I'll focus my commentary on year-to-date performance. This captures the first 3 quarters in full and helps normalize for inter-quarter shifts as customers prepare for and then reacted to changes in the tariff landscape. Year-to-date, consolidated net sales were $1.4 billion, an increase of 8.6% over the prior year or 6.1%, excluding the impact of Lugano. In our consumer vertical, sales were up 3.1%, driven by very strong growth at the Honey Pot with additional contribution from 5.11.

Year-to-date, BOA declined slightly as the team exited a lower value, less performance-oriented business in the children's market in China. This planned exit supports BOA's long-term strategy. Excluding the children's business in China, BOA's core business grew double digits. Year-to-date, sales in our industrial vertical grew 10.5%, driven primarily by Altor's acquisition of Lifoam. Growth was partially offset by near-term headwinds at Arnold due to the geopolitical uncertainty and disruptions in the rare earth supply chain. As discussed, while that disruption creates short-term challenges, we believe it also reinforces the long-term strategic relevance and growth opportunities of that business.

Excluding Lugano, year-to-date subsidiary adjusted EBITDA was $257 million, an increase of 5.8% over 2024. The growth in subsidiary adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by double-digit growth at the Honey Pot and Sterno as well as Altor's acquisition of Lifoam. This growth was partially offset by short-term challenges at Arnold as it deals with the rare earth supply chain disruptions and broader tariff-related uncertainty. Our consolidated net loss year-to-date was $215 million, which includes $155 million loss at Lugano.

Public company costs and corporate management fees were $99.5 million year-to-date. Included in that amount is more than $37 million of onetime costs associated with the Lugano investigation and restatement. CODI and our Board continue to work with the manager to fully recoup overpaid cash management fees from prior periods affected by Lugano's results as originally reported. The overpayment of which will be partially offset by a voluntary cash management fee reduction made by the manager during 2025.

In the fourth quarter, we expect to reconcile these items through a significant true-up related to the restatement. We expect this to result in a onetime noncash benefit in CODI's P&L and the recognition of a current asset that will be used to offset future cash management fees. CODI expects to fully recoup the overpaid cash management fees by the end of 2026.

Turning to our cash flow. Year-to-date, we used $54 million of cash in operating activities, primarily due to costs associated with Lugano's operations and its disposition. Year-to-date, we have invested $34 million in capital expenditures in line with the prior year as we continue to protect and invest in our 8 subsidiaries to support sustained growth. We ended the third quarter with $61.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and less than $10 million used on our revolver. As a reminder, due to the credit agreement amendment we signed in late 2025, we have restored access to the full $100 million capacity on our revolver.

As Elias discussed, reducing leverage is our priority, and we are focused on deleveraging both organically and through value-accretive strategic transactions, including the potential opportunistic sale of one or more businesses. The credit agreement amendment we signed in December gives us the time and flexibility to deleverage in an orderly way. Under the amended agreement, our leverage covenant is relaxed through 2027 with milestone fees paid to the lender beginning June 30, 2026, if our leverage ratio is not below 4.5x, which serves as an incentive for faster deleveraging. That structure allows us to deleverage organically while remaining in compliance. It also preserves the flexibility to accelerate deleveraging through a value-accretive sale of one or more business. As a reminder, our year-end leverage ratio, excluding the deconsolidated Lugano results, is expected to be around 5.3x.

Finally, we expect to continue to fund the growth of our subsidiaries alongside our debt reduction and to maintain appropriate liquidity as we execute against our plans.

Turning to our outlook for 2025. Consistent with previously communicated guidance, we are tightening our expected subsidiary adjusted EBITDA range, excluding Lugano, to between $335 million and $355 million. We'll provide an outlook for 2026 when we hold our fourth quarter call. However, we do expect to organically deleverage in 2026 through solid growth in our subsidiary adjusted EBITDA. As has been our practice, our outlook does not include the impact of any potential acquisitions or divestitures and assumes no incremental material impact from changes in the tariff environment or other macro and geopolitical developments.

Finally, we know many investors have inquired why members of management and the Board have not yet purchased shares following the completion of the restatement. The main reason is timing and process. Given the cadence of our SEC filings this year, we expect our insider trading window to remain closed until after we file our 2025 Form 10-K and complete the annual audit. When the window does reopen, any purchases would be subject to our normal preclearance and compliance procedures. With that, I'll hand it back to Elias for closing remarks.

Elias Sabo
CEO & Director

Thanks, Stephen. Before I wrap up, I want to share one additional thank you from our Board and everyone at CODI. James Bottiglieri retired from the CODI Board at the end of last year. For over 20 years, Jim was a key member of both the management team and eventually our Board. Jim was instrumental in our initial public offering and has been a valued Board member, providing deep institutional knowledge, financial expertise and wise counsel to the Board and management. We truly appreciate everything he contributed to CODI.

Now as I conclude today's prepared remarks and we look ahead, I want to reiterate our commitment to generating sustained long-term shareholder value. This objective is reflected in our capital allocation priorities to reduce leverage, invest for growth and long-term value creation and at the appropriate time, return capital to shareholders. With 2025 in the rearview mirror, we're ready to get back to what has historically defined CODI. We believe we have a battle-tested business model, strong enough to withstand the unprecedented events of this past year. We offer a permanent capital approach that allows us to acquire, manage and grow attractive businesses that are leaders in their space. We provide shareholders access to high-quality middle-market businesses backed by engaged ownership, strategic resources and a long-term approach, while empowering strong management teams to run and grow our subsidiary businesses.

We know 2025 was challenging, and trust is earned through consistent execution. That's our focus as we enter 2026. With that, Stephen and I will now take your questions. Operator, please open the lines.

