Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Jeff Norris - Senior Vice President of Finance
Andrew Young - Chief Financial Officer
Richard Fairbank - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President

Conference Call Participants

Sanjay Sakhrani - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
L. Erika Penala - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Terry Ma - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
John Pancari - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Richard Shane - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Mihir Bhatia - BofA Securities, Research Division
Moshe Orenbuch - TD Cowen, Research Division
Donald Fandetti - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jeffrey Adelson - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
John Hecht - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Robert Wildhack - Autonomous Research US LP
Saul Martinez - HSBC Global Investment Research

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Capital One Q4 2025 Earnings Call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jeff Norris, Senior Vice President of Finance. Please go ahead.

Jeff Norris
Senior Vice President of Finance

Thanks very much, Josh, and welcome, everyone. To access the live webcast of the call, please go to the Investors section of Capital One's website at capitalone.com. A copy of the earnings presentation, press release and financial supplement can also be found in the Investors section of Capital One's website, capitalone.com, by selecting financials and then quarterly earnings release.

With me this evening are Mr. Richard Fairbank, Capital One's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Andrew Young, Capital One's Chief Financial Officer. Rich and Andrew are going to walk you through this presentation that summarizes our fourth quarter 2025 results.

Please note that this presentation may contain forward-looking statements. Information regarding Capital One's financial performance and any forward-looking statements contained in today's discussion and the materials speak only as of the particular date or dates indicated in the materials. Capital One does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of this information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements. And for more information on these factors, please see the section titled Forward-Looking Information in the earnings release presentation and the Risk Factors section of our annual and quarterly reports accessible at Capital One's website and filed with the SEC.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Mr. Young. Andrew?

Andrew Young
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Jeff, and good afternoon, everyone. Let me begin by saying that we are incredibly excited to announce that we have entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Brex. Rich will talk more about the Brex acquisition in a moment.

I'll start tonight's presentation by covering the highlights of our fourth quarter results on Slide 3. In the fourth quarter, Capital One earned $2.1 billion or $3.26 per diluted common share. For the full year, Capital One earned $2.5 billion or $4.03 per share.

We completed the sale of the $8.8 billion Discover home loans portfolio in the quarter. After refining our preliminary purchase accounting estimates, the proceeds resulted in a net gain on sale of $483 million, which is reported in the results for discontinued operations. You can find the revised Discover purchase consideration walk and amortization schedules in the appendix of tonight's presentations.

Net of the home loan sales and the other adjusting items, fourth quarter earnings per share were $3.86. Full year adjusted earnings per share were $19.61. We also had 2 notable items in the quarter, $200 million of accelerated philanthropy contributions and $37 million of pension termination expense. Relative to the prior quarter, fourth quarter revenue increased about 1% and noninterest expense increased 13%.

Pre-provision earnings declined 12% or 10% net of adjustments. Our provision for credit losses was $4.1 billion in the quarter, an increase of about $1.4 billion relative to the third quarter. The increase was driven by an allowance build of $302 million in the quarter versus last quarter's release as well as a $360 million increase in net charge-offs.

Turning to Slide 4. I'll now cover the allowance in greater detail. The $302 million allowance build in the quarter brought the allowance balance to $23.4 billion. Our total portfolio coverage ratio decreased 5 basis points and now stands at 5.16%.

I'll cover the drivers of the changes in allowance and coverage ratio by segment on Slide 5. In our Domestic Card segment, our coverage ratio declined by 11 basis points and now stands at 7.17%. The $335 million allowance build was largely driven by loan growth in the quarter. The allowance balance in our Consumer Banking segment was largely flat at $1.9 billion. Growth in the auto business was largely offset by continued observed credit favorability. The coverage ratio ended the quarter at 2.23%, 3 basis points lower than the prior quarter.

And finally, in our Commercial Banking segment, we released $47 million of allowance. The allowance release was largely driven by charge-offs in the quarter. The commercial banking coverage ratio declined 6 basis points and now stands at 1.63%.

Turning to Page 6. I'll now discuss liquidity. Total liquidity reserves ended the fourth quarter at about $144 billion, up modestly from the prior quarter. Our preliminary average liquidity coverage ratio increased to 173% in the quarter, driven by higher average cash and lower net outflows.

Turning to Page 7, I'll cover our net interest margin. Our fourth quarter net interest margin was 8.26%, 10 basis points lower than the prior quarter. The decline was driven by lower asset yields and a higher cash balance as the impact of the sale of the Discover home loans portfolio more than offset the typical seasonal decline in cash.

Turning to Slide 8. I will end by discussing our capital position. Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio ended the quarter at 14.3%, approximately 10 basis points lower than the prior quarter. Quarterly earnings were more than offset by $2.5 billion in share repurchases and the increase in risk-weighted assets.

With that, I will turn the call over to Rich. Rich?

Richard Fairbank
Founder, Chairman, CEO & President

Thanks, Andrew. Slide 10 shows fourth quarter results in our Credit Card business.

Credit Card segment results are largely a function of our Domestic Card results and trends, which are shown on Slide 11. In the fourth quarter, the combined domestic card business posted steady top line growth, strong margins and stable credit. Year-over-year purchase volume growth for the quarter was 39%, driven primarily, of course, by the addition of Discover purchase volume. Excluding Discover, year-over-year purchase volume growth was about 6.2%.

Ending loan balances increased 69% year-over-year, also largely as a result of adding Discover card loans. Excluding Discover, ending loans grew about [ 3.3% ] year-over-year. While competitive intensity remains high, we continue to see good traction across our legacy card business, with stronger growth results in our heavy spender franchise at the top of the marketplace.

The legacy Discover card loans continue to contract slightly and will likely continue to face near-term growth headwinds due to Discover's prior credit policy cutbacks and some trimming around the edges that we're doing. We continue to see good opportunities to grow the Discover card business on the other side of our tech integration, where we can implement growth expansions powered by our unique technology and underwriting.

Revenue was up 58% from the fourth quarter of 2024, largely driven by the addition of Discover revenue. Excluding Discover, year-over-year revenue growth was about 6.2%, driven by underlying growth in purchase volume and loans.

Revenue margin for the quarter was steady at 17.3%. The domestic card charge-off rate for the fourth quarter was 4.93%, up 30 basis points from the prior quarter and down 113 basis points from a year ago.

Our domestic card delinquency rate was 3.99%, up 10 basis points from the prior quarter and down 54 basis points from a year ago. On a sequential quarter basis, both our charge-offs and delinquencies moved in line with normal seasonality. Our credit metrics appear to be settling out after almost a year of steady improvement.

Domestic Card noninterest expense was up 60% compared to the fourth quarter of 2024 reflecting a full quarter of combined operations and purchase accounting amortization. Operating expense and marketing both increased year-over-year. Total company marketing expense in the quarter was about $1.9 billion, up 41% year-over-year.

Our choices in Domestic Card are the biggest driver of total company marketing. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2024, domestic card marketing in the quarter included the addition of Discover marketing, higher media spend and increased investment in premium benefits and differentiated customer experiences. Our marketing continues to deliver strong new account originations and to build an enduring franchise with heavy spenders at the top of the market.

Slide 12 shows fourth quarter results in our Consumer Banking business. Global payment network transaction volume for the quarter was about $175 billion. Auto originations were up 8% from the prior year quarter. Increased competitor activity in the quarter drove a slowdown in our originations growth, but we continue to be in a strong position to pursue resilient growth in the current marketplace.

Consumer Banking ending loan balances increased $6.7 billion or about 9% year-over-year. Average loans were also up 9%. Compared to the year ago quarter, ending in average consumer deposits grew about 33% driven largely by the addition of Discover deposits. Looking through the Discover impact our digital-first national consumer banking business continues to grow and gain traction.

Consumer Banking revenue for the quarter was up about 36% year-over-year, driven predominantly by the full quarter of Discover operations as well as discover revenue synergies and growth in auto loans. Noninterest expense was up about 48% compared to the fourth quarter of 2024, driven largely by the full quarter of Discover as well as higher marketing to drive growth in our national consumer banking business. increased auto originations and continued technology investments.

The auto charge-off rate for the quarter was 1.82%, down 50 basis points year-over-year and up 28 basis points from the third quarter, in line with expected seasonality. Auto charge-offs have been stable near pre-pandemic levels for the past year. The auto delinquency rate increased seasonally in the quarter, up 24 basis points to 5.23%. On a year-over-year basis, our auto delinquencies improved by 72 basis points.

Slide 13 shows fourth quarter results for our Commercial Banking business. Compared to the linked quarter, both ending and average loan balances were flat. Ending deposits were up about 4% from the linked quarter. Average deposits were up 5%. The Commercial Banking annualized net charge-off rate for the fourth quarter increased 22 basis points from the sequential quarter to 0.43%. The commercial criticized performing loan rate was 4.68%, down 45 basis points compared to the linked quarter. The criticized nonperforming loan rate was down 3 basis points to 1.36%.

In closing, fourth quarter results continued to reflect solid top line growth and strong and stable credit performance. Continuing capital generation and our strong balance sheet powered increased share repurchases of $2.5 billion in the quarter and we made expected progress on Discover integration and synergies in the quarter. We remain on track to deliver the expected synergies.

2025 was a seminal year for Capital One. In addition to delivering strong performance across our businesses, we completed the acquisition of Discover, a singular transaction that's delivering near-term synergies and unlocking significant strategic opportunity and upside over the long term. Our 2025 performance was enabled by years of strategic preparation and our choice to consistently invest to sustain long-term growth and returns. And these same choices put us in a strong position going forward. As we enter 2026, I'm struck by the number and quality of the opportunities we have before us.

We've been investing in many of our opportunities for years, like building our heavy spender franchise with consumers and small businesses at the top of the credit card marketplace, building a national franchise of primary banking relationships in our retail banking business and building a modern technology and data infrastructure. And as we continue to build on foundational tech investments to migrate up the tech stack, we're generating new growth opportunities like Capital One Travel, Capital One Shopping and Auto Navigator. Our tech stack was built from the outset working backwards from the AI revolution, and we are now building AI solutions across our businesses.

Many of our opportunities are enhanced by the Discover acquisition, which, of course, also brings the new opportunity to grow and scale our own global payments network. To capitalize on these opportunities at this special moment, we need to make significant and sustained investments, and we are leaning into them.

Tonight, I'm excited to announce our agreement to acquire Brex for a combination of stock and cash totaling $5.15 billion. We've included slides in the earnings presentation appendix that summarize key aspects of the transaction. Brex is a pioneer in the dynamically changing business payment space, with industry-leading technology and world-class talent. Acquiring Brex accelerates a journey we've been on since our founding days, the quest to build a banking and payments company that's positioned to win where the world is going.

The transaction will create purchase accounting impacts that will need to help investors navigate. Importantly, we expect Brex to have no impact on the Discover integration or expected synergies. And the total consideration for the Brex acquisition is around 3.5% of Capital One's market capitalization. So it doesn't change the expected pace or magnitude of our quarterly share repurchases. And perhaps most importantly, we still expect our earnings power on the other side of the Discover integration to be consistent with what we expected at the time we announced the Discover deal, inclusive of Brex.

And now we'll be happy to answer your questions. Jeff?

Jeff Norris
Senior Vice President of Finance

Thanks, Rich. We'll now start the Q&A session. As a courtesy to other investors and analysts who may wish to ask a question. Please limit yourself to one question plus a single follow-up. If you have follow-up questions after the Q&A session, you can get in touch with the Investor Relations team, and we will be available to answer them for you. Josh, please start the Q&A session.

