CSX Corporation (CSX) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Matthew Korn - Head of Investor Relations
Stephen Angel - CEO, President & Director
Michael Cory - Executive VP & COO
Kevin Boone - Executive VP & CFO
Maryclare Kenney

Conference Call Participants

Thomas Wadewitz - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brian Ossenbeck - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Scott Group - Wolfe Research, LLC
Ariel Rosa - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Brandon Oglenski - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Ken Hoexter - BofA Securities, Research Division
Stephanie Benjamin Moore - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Jonathan Chappell - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Christian Wetherbee - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jason Seidl - TD Cowen, Research Division
Ravi Shanker - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jordan Alliger - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Walter Spracklin - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Bascome Majors - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
David Vernon - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to the CSX Corporation Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Matthew Korn, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Matthew Korn
Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, Sarah. Good afternoon, everyone. We're very pleased to have you join our fourth quarter earnings call. Joining me from the CSX leadership team are Steve Angel, President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Cory, EVP and Chief Operating Officer; Kevin Boone, EVP and Chief Financial Officer; and Maryclare Kenney, SVP and Chief Commercial Officer.

In the presentation that accompanies this call, which is available on our website, you will find slides with our forward-looking and non-GAAP disclosures. We encourage you to review them.

And with that, I'm very happy to turn the call over to Mr. Steve Angel.

Stephen Angel
CEO, President & Director

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining our fourth quarter call. This has been a challenging year for CSX and for our industry overall with subdued demand and limited growth opportunities persisting across many of our key markets. Against this backdrop, our service levels remained positive in the fourth quarter, and we delivered modest total volume growth. However, reported operating income, operating margin and earnings per share were all lower year-over-year.

As noted in our press release, these results included approximately $50 million in expenses related to important actions we've taken to adjust our cost structure, deliver better financial results and position the railroad to succeed. We are committed to delivering stronger performance into 2026 as we build on our key accomplishments. We've renewed the leadership team, putting the best people into the best positions to drive value. And we're aligned in driving greater physical responsibility and disciplined execution across the company. We've stabilized service on our network at high levels, delivering consistency and reliability for our customers while realizing clear productivity gains.

We've capitalized on the strength of our service to win business, and we will be ready and able to respond when demand increases. As we move forward, you will continue to see us take thoughtful actions to drive greater profitability and cash flow and build momentum into the year ahead. And now I'll turn it over to Mike.

Michael Cory
Executive VP & COO

Thank you, Steve. So let's take a quick look at our safety and operational metrics on Slide 5. Our operations team is improving safety performance through focused execution of our safety plan. The left portion of this slide highlights meaningful full year declines in both FRA injury and accident rates with the fourth quarter posting the year's best metrics. We know that an outstanding safety record is a clear indicator of effective management at every level, and we're taking solid steps towards our goal of reaching best-in-class performance for the industry.

The right portion of the slide shows strong year-end fluidity and customer service performance. Velocity, cars online, dwell and trip plan compliance all showed substantial improvement from Q1 to Q4. These are encouraging trends as we enter 2026. Running a cost-effective, efficient network while delivering consistent, reliable service is essential to our success. We'll maintain this balance and preserve our operational momentum while ensuring CSX has the capacity available when the industrial cycle turns.

Kevin will now review our quarterly results in more detail.

Kevin Boone
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Mike, and good afternoon. I'm excited to be back in the CFO role and have an opportunity to work with this team. As Steve mentioned, over the last couple of months, we have taken steps to align our cost structure to the current business environment. The team is fully engaged, and I'm encouraged by the momentum we are building with opportunities to drive efficiencies in nearly every part of our business as we enter 2026.

Now let's move to the fourth quarter results. Volume increased 1% with revenue down 1%, driven by business mix headwinds and coal pricing. Fourth quarter operating income and earnings per share fell by 9% and 7%, respectively, against adjusted prior year figures. These results included approximately $50 million or $0.02 of charges for actions taken during the fourth quarter to optimize our workforce and technology portfolio.

Now let's turn to the next slide for a closer look at the expense line. Fourth quarter expenses increased by $73 million or 3%, excluding the 2024 goodwill impairment. As mentioned, the quarter included approximately $50 million of charges comprised of $31 million of separation costs in the labor line and $21 million of technology impairments in PS&O. We continue to see opportunities to drive efficiency in our labor costs as we prioritize safety, customer service and profitable growth. Ending rail headcount finished the quarter down over 3% as we continue to align to the current business environment.

Additionally, overtime remains a focus for Mike's team as we look for ways to provide better visibility and tools to manage these costs. We have identified meaningful opportunities to reduce nonlabor spending with well over 100 diverse savings initiatives across the company, including cutting outside and professional service spend, improving asset utilization and maintenance efficiencies as well as enhancing controls around all sources of discretionary spend.

2026 expenses will also see year-over-year benefit from cycling network disruption costs, third and fourth quarter separation costs and fourth quarter technology impairments. Depreciation expense will be relatively stable year-over-year as normal increases to the asset base are offset by favorable results from an equipment life study, asset retirements and targeted reductions to technology and aviation assets. We are encouraged by the cost improvements identified as we move through the quarter.

Similar to our focus on cost, capital spend and driving free cash flow remains a significant area of opportunity. Working with Mike and his team, we are developing improved oversight to ensure every dollar of capital is spent efficiently and aligns to our strategic priorities, including safety, customer service and driving profitable growth. With that, I will turn it over to Maryclare to review our revenue results.

Maryclare Kenney

Thank you, Kevin. I'm happy to be here and excited to have the opportunity to lead the professionals in our commercial organization. The railroad is running well, and we have many opportunities ahead. That said, as you've heard from Steve, we continue to navigate the challenges of a mixed industrial demand environment. The strength of our relationships is critical when uncertainty is elevated, and our voice of the customer surveys show that our team has been doing an excellent job at staying close to our customers and being responsive as conditions change.

Turning to Slide 10. Let's cover fourth quarter volume and revenue performance. Overall, total volume was up 1% in the quarter, but revenue was down 1% as negative mix and weaker export coal prices led to a 2% decline in total revenue per unit. Our merchandise franchise, where volume and revenue were both down 2%, continues to face market-driven headwinds. Revenue per unit was modestly higher and was also affected by mix as growth was strongest in low RPU areas such as minerals and fertilizers.

We continue to see softness in chemicals and forest products, where volume was down 6% and 11%, respectively. The industrial chemicals market remains weak, and many of our customers are carefully controlling freight spend as they manage through inflation and tariff pressures. In Forest Products, we continue to see the effects of plant closures, particularly with pulp and containerboard that occurred up until the start of the fourth quarter.

Despite these headwinds, our team has had success at winning incremental business, and we anticipate benefits from new facilities ramping up in 2026. Automotive volume was down 5% year-over-year. While we saw some manufacturers gain momentum through the quarter, supply constraints with chips and metals limited output at other facilities.

That said, we've been encouraged by the continued strength in fertilizers and minerals shipments. Fertilizer volume was up 7% on improved phosphate rock production and business wins in the nitrogen market. Minerals volume remains supported by demand for aggregates and cement for infrastructure projects. Our intermodal franchise really drove our growth this quarter with revenue up 7% year-over-year on a 5% increase in volume. We've been winning new domestic and international business as we brought faster transit times and more connectivity to our customers.

Finally, our coal business grew modestly in the quarter with volume up 1% year-over-year. Domestic tonnage increased by 6%, driven by a substantial increase in domestic utility volume, supported by growing power demand and higher natural gas prices. Export tonnage declined 3% in the quarter with the derailment in late October impacting shipments for a short time. Revenue was down 5% on a 6% decline in RPU, primarily due to a decline in met coal benchmark pricing. Notably, the discount for East Coast met coal indices widened versus Australian pricing this quarter, which impacted our yields.

Now let's turn to Slide 11 and talk about the key components of our market expectations in 2026. Starting with merchandise, we are positioned to benefit from consistent strength in infrastructure project activity in key regions served by CSX that's driving demand for materials such as cement, aggregates, plate and scrap metal. More uncertain are conditions in the housing and automotive markets, which affect many commodity markets. Consensus forecasts call for modest decline in housing starts this next year and affordability and overall demand levels continue to impact the prospects for North American light vehicle production.

Our merchandise volumes will also reflect cycling of facility closures, largely in the forest products and metals areas that occurred through 2025. We've been encouraged by the success we've had in Intermodal, where the team won new business in 2025 as we expanded our network reach through new operational agreements and our strong service has allowed us to provide a faster service product.

At Howard Street, the first of 2 bridges being raised to support double stack capability is now complete, and our customers are excited about the opportunities coming later this spring. They're bidding on business now for volume to start moving double stack through the tunnel in Q2. Still, the markets reflect the reality of a still soft trucking market, where we're watching the supply-driven increase in truck rates carefully. We also need to be aware of the risk of a slowdown in imports after the pull forward of activity that occurred through 2025.

For coal, we're pleased to have 2 important mines on our network back open after extended outages. These mines provide good quality met coal for the export market, so global steel markets and benchmark prices remain subdued. Domestically, many utilities continue to buy more thermal coal given increasing power demand. We do have coal plants on our network scheduled to retire this year, but we have seen some closures get delayed. Overall, we see good potential in 2026, but we expect the best results will come from our own specific initiatives.

Our visibility is limited, but from what we can see and hear from our customers today, there's no short-term catalyst on the horizon to lift the major industrial markets. Our team will work hard to make the most of every profitable opportunity and we will be ready to respond when macro conditions improve.

Now I'll hand it back to Steve to talk through our outlook.

Stephen Angel
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Maryclare. Now we'll review our guidance for 2026 on Slide 13. We have a well-running railroad and a good pipeline of growth initiatives. However, as Maryclare discussed, the near-term outlook across many key markets remain soft. As we plan for 2026, we do not anticipate any meaningful improvement in macroeconomic conditions. So we are assuming low single-digit revenue growth for the year based on flat industrial production, modest GDP growth and fuel and benchmark coal prices consistent with current levels.

We expect to deliver year-over-year operating margin expansion in the range of 200 to 300 basis points. This is from a combination of workforce optimization, tighter management of discretionary expenses, our drive for efficiency and the benefits of a more stable, fluid railroad. With our Blue Ridge project complete and focused efforts on capital discipline in place, we plan for 2026 CapEx below $2.4 billion, a substantial reduction from last year. Our CapEx priorities are unchanged, invest in our infrastructure for safety and reliability and invest in growth and productivity projects that pass our financial criteria.

For free cash flow, higher earnings, a more normalized cash tax rate and lower capital outlays should drive growth of at least 50% compared to 2025. Finally, let me address the multiyear targets that were offered at the company's 2024 Investor Day. The opportunities ahead for CSX are strong. When we execute on the core fundamentals of service, cost discipline, operating efficiency and prudent capital deployment, we will create shareholder value over the long term.

That said, the macroeconomic environment and the industry dynamics were meaningfully different than compared to today. I am replacing our 2025, 2027 targets with the guidance we've given for 2026 only. I will continue to evaluate our outlook as we make progress toward our goal to be the best-performing railroad in North America. With that, Matthew, we will open it up for questions.

