Commvault Systems, Inc. (CVLT) Q3 2026 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Michael Melnyk - Head of Investor Relations
Sanjay Mirchandani - President, CEO & Director
Danielle Abrahamsen

Conference Call Participants

Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jason Ader - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
James Fish - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Eric Heath - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Howard Ma - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Paramveer Singh - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Rudy Kessinger - D.A. Davidson & Co., Research Division
Michael Romanelli - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Thomas Blakey - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Shrenik Kothari - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Junaid Siddiqui - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and thank you for standing by. My name is Bella, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Commvault Q3 Fiscal 2026 Earnings Conference Call.

[Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mike Melnyk, Vice President of Investor Relations. You may begin.

Michael Melnyk
Head of Investor Relations

Good morning, and welcome to our earnings conference call. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that statements made on today's call will include forward-looking statements about Commvault's future expectations, plans and prospects. All such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Please refer to the cautionary language in today's earnings release and Commvault's most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC for a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to be materially different from those contemplated in these forward-looking statements. Commvault does not assume any obligation to update these statements. During this call, Commvault's financial results are presented on a non-GAAP basis. A reconciliation between the non-GAAP and GAAP measures can be found on our website. Thank you again for joining us. Now I'll turn it over to our CEO, Sanjay Mirchandani, for his opening remarks. Sanjay?

Sanjay Mirchandani
President, CEO & Director

Good morning, and thank you for joining us. Q3 was another solid quarter for Commvault. We reinforced our position as an innovation leader and garnered accolades from partners and industry analysts. Some financial highlights in the quarter include subscription revenue grew 30% to $206 million. This was fueled by a record land and expand quarter with the addition of 700 new subscription customers. Subscription ARR increased 28% to $941 million. SaaS ARR increased 40% to $364 million and we achieved the rule of 40 with a healthy balance between growth and profitability. Our momentum in Q3 and year-to-date reflects the growing need for next-generation cyber resilience. In an AI-driven hybrid and multi-cloud world, resilience cannot be reactive, manual or fragmented. It needs to be continuous, always on and unified through a single control plane. Commvault uniquely delivers this innovation.

I'm proud to share that in Q3, we were awarded our 1,600th lifetime patent. I want to thank our engineering and IT teams for their continued commitment to excellence and innovation focused on customers. At our SHIFT event in November, we took innovation to the next level with the Commvault Cloud Unity platform release. Unity brings together data security, identity resilience and cyber recovery on one platform, all enabled by the Metallic AI fabric.

With Unity, customers are now equipped to drive their ResOps or Resilience Operations. ResOps is a discipline that unifies operations, security and infrastructure across the business. By bringing these silos together, organizations can plan, prepare and recover from a disruption or cyberattack. Customer partner and industry feedback has been overwhelmingly positive.

Dave Novak, Deloitte Cyber Resilience Lead said, "The Commvault Cloud Unity platform brings these elements together in a way we don't see elsewhere in the market. We're pleased to team with Commvault to help joint customers respond faster, reduce risk, and confidently adopt AI and cloud at scale while advancing resiliency."

IDC further validated this approach stating, "We believe ResOps has an opportunity to resonate with customers as it is concise with powerful implications and operational value." ResOps is a fundamentally different approach from what legacy vendors provide today. Resilience in the age of AI requires us to: one, continuously secure data at the source and monitor for anomalies; two, control the identities, human and nonhuman that access and use the data autonomously; and three, predictably recover data applications and operations at massive scale with the lowest total cost of ownership.

Let's take a moment to discuss each, starting with data security. As enterprises embrace AI and move to the cloud, they must also grapple with evolving and more sophisticated attacks. By combining Commvault's Metallic AI fabric with our multipoint Threat Scan, Synthetic Recovery and Cleanroom Recovery offerings, customers can secure data as a source, identify, analyze and quarantine suspicious files, monitor for anomalies and conduct recoveries with precision so they're ready for an inevitable attack.

Case in point. By embracing our Threat Scan and risk analysis capabilities, UNC Health, a long-standing customer, is now able to scale its security with its data growth, saving time, reducing risk, supporting compliance and advancing cyber resilience.

Next, let's talk about Identity Resilience. According to CrowdStrike, approximately 80% of breaches involve compromised identities. Attackers don't start by encrypting data. They compromise valid credentials and escalate privileges, putting identity at the center of side risk. Commvault Cloud's growing Identity Resilience capabilities enable enterprises to ease and track and mitigate unauthorized or accidental changes to identity systems like Active Directory, Entra ID and Okta.

As Eric Bayer of Jazwares, a Berkshire Hathaway company explained "Commvault innovation with Identity Resilience will allow us to detect and roll back malicious identity changes as they happen so that we can maintain reliable authentication and access control while strengthening our overall cyber resilience."

In Q3, hundreds of customers embrace our Identity Resilience capabilities. And ARR from just our Active Directory offering has more than doubled year-over-year. In just 2 years, it has become one of our largest SaaS offerings. And finally, we cannot discuss resilience operations without addressing recovery, particularly for cloud native and cloud bound enterprises. In Q3, we saw accelerated momentum with our cloud native offerings, including Clumio. For example, Klarity, a pioneer in AI-driven predictive health chose Clumio to safeguard sensitive AI data that fuels next-generation risk prediction models. Our ongoing innovation with Clumio also speaks to our long-standing collaboration with Amazon Web Services.

In Q3, we achieved AWS resilience competency in the recovery category and we were named the 2025 AWS Global Storage Partner of the Year. Additionally, GigaOm named Commvault a leader in its cloud data protection radar. Commvault Cloud also supports recovery of massive AI workloads and pipelines like object storage, data lakes, analytics platforms and vector databases. In Q3, we announced a new partnership with Pinecone that will bring greater resilience to the vector databases within enterprise AI stacks.

Delivered via Commvault Cloud, the solution will support Pinecone deployments across AWS, Azure and Google Cloud. It's targeted for general availability in Q2 of calendar 2026. We believe that AI is an emerging tailwind for us. It dramatically increases the volume of data that needs to be protected. It introduces new threats that need to be addressed and requires a solution that brings resilience to the services, models and databases that power AI. Our Commvault Cloud Unity platform is ideally suited to help customers address these evolving AI requirements.

I'd be remiss if I didn't discuss our focus on data and cloud sovereignty. Over the years, we've always met our customers' evolving needs, including their data sovereignty requirements. Now we're taking it a step further by supporting regional sovereign clouds. In December, we announced that Commvault is a launch partner for the AWS European Sovereign Cloud. Together, our plans are to provide European organizations with a secure solution that is purpose-built for cloud, delivering cost-optimized resilience at scale for AWS customers. We are working closely with other partners in cloud sovereignty as well. This is an emerging space, and we'll have more to say about this soon.

Let me close with this. This quarter, we continue to capitalize on strong market growth through innovation leadership and execution excellence, and we're seeing record customer engagement and adoption. We believe Commvault Cloud Unity is the breakthrough platform customers need in the AI era. And we anticipate we will finish the year with solid results that reflect both our leadership in the market and the trust our customers place in Commvault. Thank you. Now I'll turn it over to our Chief Accounting Officer, Danielle Abrahamsen, to discuss the financial details. Danielle?

Danielle Abrahamsen

Thanks, Sanjay, and good morning, everyone. As Sanjay highlighted, our Q3 results reflect the growing demand for our Commvault Cloud platform as customers continue to rely on us to keep them resilient in the face of attacks while advancing their hybrid cloud and AI journey. I'll recap our Q3 results and operating metrics, followed by an update on Q4 and fiscal '26 guidance. As a reminder, all growth rates are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted. For Q3, total revenue growth accelerated 19% to $314 million, driven by a 30% increase in subscription revenue, which reached $206 million. Subscription revenue was led by a robust 44% increase in SaaS revenue and one of our strongest customer acquisition quarters in years.

Term software revenue grew a healthy 22% to $119 million. We saw strong growth across all geographies and customer sizes with notable strength from large enterprise accounts. Revenue from term software transactions over $100,000 rose 25%, driven by notable gains in both transaction volume and average deal size. Additionally, the volume and dollar value of million-dollar software deals increased year-over-year, underscoring our standing as the preferred vendor for enterprise customers. We added approximately 700 new subscription customers and we ended the quarter with over 14,000 subscription customers. Q3 was our best quarter ever for net new term software customer additions and our second best ever SaaS customer acquisition quarter.

Now I'll discuss ARR. Subscription ARR, which we believe is the best indicator of the company's health and growth increased 28% to $941 million. This was driven by 40% growth in SaaS ARR to $364 million. Subscription ARR now represents 87% of total ARR compared to 83% 1 year ago. Total ARR increased by 22% to $1.085 billion. Existing customer expansion was healthy in Q3, with SaaS net dollar retention of 121%, consistent with best-in-class SaaS platforms.

Our SaaS net dollar retention reflects a few things: one, a growing installed base, which is now over 9,000 customers; two, the impact of rapidly adding new SaaS customers which is forward-looking and not yet reflected in our net dollar retention; and three, a mix shift of some product capabilities with certain early adopter customers.

We saw solid momentum across our identity and resilience offering, which collectively represented approximately 30% of net new ARR. Now I'll discuss our profitability and free cash flow. Fiscal Q3 gross margins improved 100 basis points sequentially to 81.5%, which reflects a higher mix of software sales. In addition, we saw improved economies of scale and product efficiencies that we expect to continue in Q4. Operating expenses of $193 million represented 62% of total revenue. Operating expenses reflect higher commission and bonuses on strong year-to-date sales performance and the trailing run rate of initiatives to support our ongoing growth trajectory. Non-GAAP EBIT was $61 million, reflecting in a margin of 19.6%. In fiscal Q3, we achieved the rule of 40 reflecting a healthy balance between revenue and profitability. Year-to-date, we're operating at a rule of 41, consistent with our responsible growth philosophy. In line with this approach at the end of Q3, we initiated a cost optimization program aimed to align our cost structure to the evolving needs of the business.

Turning to key balance sheet and cash flow indicators. We repurchased $41 million of stock during the quarter, bringing the year-to-date amount to $187 million. We ended the quarter with a diluted share count of approximately 45 million shares. Year-to-date, we have generated $105 million of free cash flow. Q3 free cash flow of $2 million was impacted by the timing of collections from sales made later in the quarter, and an additional payroll cycle for both the U.S. and Canada. We expect this to normalize in Q4.

Now I'll discuss our outlook for Q4 and our updated outlook for fiscal year '26. For fiscal Q4 '26, we expect subscription revenue, which includes both the software portion of term-based licenses and SaaS to be in the range of $203 million to $207 million. This represents 18% growth at the midpoint. We expect total revenue to be in the range of $305 million to $308 million with growth of 11% at the midpoint. As a reminder, Q4 fiscal year '25 benefited from several multiyear strategic land transactions. At these revenue levels, we expect Q4 consolidated gross margins to be approximately 81%. We expect Q4 non-GAAP EBIT margin of approximately 19%.

Now I'll discuss our updated fiscal year 2026 guidance. As a reminder, ARR guidance is in constant currency using FX rates as of March 31, 2025. For historical comparison, please refer to our Q3 earnings presentation. We expect constant currency fiscal '26 total ARR growth to be approximately 18% driven by an estimated 24% growth in subscription ARR. This guidance reflects the flow-through of our Q3 results and is within our prior range.

From a full year fiscal '26 revenue perspective, we are raising subscription revenue to be in the range of $764 million to $768 million, growing 30% at the midpoint. We are also increasing total revenue to a range of $1.177 billion to $1.18 billion, representing growth of 18% at the midpoint.

Moving to our full year fiscal '26 margin, EBIT and free cash flow outlook. We now expect gross margins to be 81% to 81.5%. This increased range reflects continued growth in our SaaS platform. And we are increasing our non-GAAP EBIT margin guidance to a range of 19% to 20%. We now expect our full year free cash flow outlook to range from $215 million to $220 million. This guidance reflects approximately $12 million to $15 million in onetime payments related to our cost optimization program.

Finally, from a capital allocation perspective, our Board of Directors approved recommitting our share repurchase authorization back to $250 million. Share repurchases remain an important part of our capital allocation philosophy, and we intend to remain active and opportunistic in the market. To summarize, the scale and product initiatives we undertook over the last 18 months have contributed to our improved momentum and positioned us as the cyber resilient provider of choice for large enterprises. Commvault Cloud Unity further extends our innovation leadership, and we are excited to capitalize on the strong customer reception to our enhanced platform in fiscal '27 and beyond.

Now I will turn it back to the operator to open the line for questions. Operator?

