Carvana Co. (CVNA) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 29, 2025 5:30 PM EDT

Company Participants

Meg Kehan
Ernest Garcia - Co-Founder, President, CEO & Chairman
Mark Jenkins - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Sharon Zackfia - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Marvin Fong - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Rajat Gupta - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Brian Nagel - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
John Colantuoni - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Christopher Bottiglieri - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division
Daniela Haigian - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jeffrey Lick - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Andrew Boone - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Michael McGovern - BofA Securities, Research Division
Michael Montani - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Christopher Pierce - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to Carvana's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Meg Kehan with Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Meg Kehan

Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining us on Carvana's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Please note that this call will be simultaneously webcast on the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at investors.carvana.com. The third quarter shareholder letter is also posted on the IR website. Additionally, we posted a set of supplemental financial tables for Q3, which can be found on the Events and Presentations page of our IR website.

Joining me on the call today are Ernie Garcia, Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Jenkins, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that the following discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including, but not limited to, Carvana's market opportunities and future financial results that involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here. A detailed discussion of the material factors that cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements can be found in the Risk Factors section of Carvana's most recent Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q. The forward-looking statements and risks in this conference call are based on current expectations as of today, and Carvana assumes no obligation to update or revise them, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise.

Our commentary today will include non-GAAP financial metrics. Unless otherwise specified, all references to GPU and SG&A will be to non-GAAP metrics, and all references to EBITDA will be to adjusted EBITDA. Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP metrics for our reported results can be found in our shareholder letter issued today, a copy of which can be found on our IR website.

And with that said, I'd like to turn the call over to Ernie Garcia. Ernie?

Ernest Garcia
Co-Founder, President, CEO & Chairman

Thanks, Meg, and thanks, everyone, for joining the call. The third quarter was another incredible quarter for Carvana. We remain the most profitable and fastest-growing automotive retailer. These data points are exciting in isolation. Achieving them simultaneously is rare and points to an exceptional future. Achieving them by the margins we have been recently, profit margins more than 2x the industry average and growth over 40% when other public retailers are approximately flat points to something that is structurally different, something that is capable of achieving our ambitious mission of changing the way people buy and sell cars. That is exactly what we believe we are capable of, exactly what we are focused on making happen and exactly what the data is telling us we are marching toward every quarter.

Q3 was another large step on the path to achieving our current goal of selling 3 million cars at a 13.5% adjusted EBITDA margin in the next 5 to 10 years. We're getting better as we get bigger, aided by the feedback inherent in our business, the benefits of scale and our continued pursuit of fundamental gains as well as the addition of foundational capabilities. The positive feedback flywheel is spinning. The data that powers our decision-making throughout the business is growing exponentially and allowing us to iteratively improve the models powering every decision across the business.

Our sales growth allows us to keep growing inventory economically, constantly broadening customer selection. Year-over-year, our inventory turn time is approximately flat, yet our customers have nearly 50% more cars to choose from. And the benefits of scale are also allowing us to make investments that magnify these advantages. Over the last 18 months, we've added reconditioning capacity to 15 ADESA locations, allowing us to position inventory closer to our customers, reducing customer delivery time by a day in the last 5 quarters. We've developed our digital auction capability, ADESA Clear, delivering a best-in-class digital auction experience to our wholesale customers, allowing us to add wholesale capabilities to 12 of our inspection centers and counting.

Having the strongest retail and wholesale channels to sell vehicles makes us a systematically better buyer of all cars from our customers and our partners. We've also been working on making dramatic improvements to delivery capability that will show up over time. We are currently using Phoenix as a test market to optimize our finance verifications, registration processes, vehicle staging, delivery scheduling systems and staffing models for speed. As a result, 40% of customers in Phoenix are now getting same or next-day delivery compared to 10% that get same or next-day delivery nationwide. On any given day, customers in Phoenix have about 2,500 cars available to be delivered that same day. That's worth pausing on and taking time to think through the implications.

Thousands of vehicles that can be purchased in minutes and delivered in hours is a highly desirable and extremely difficult to replicate capability. Like all good things, this will take some time to optimize the rollout across the country, but it is coming. Another set of statistics that demonstrate meaningful progress are that today, more than 30% of retail customers now complete the entire process without any interaction with the customer advocate until their delivery or pickup appointment. For customers selling their car to us, this number is more than 60%. To make this possible, our business must be vertically integrated, data must be well organized and immediately accessible. Decisions have to be deterministic and automated. Workflows have to be concretely defined inside of systems and all that has to be wrapped in intuitive interfaces that make customers feel confident.

It's hard. Our team is doing a great job, has detailed plans to keep making it better and is nowhere near satisfied. Looking forward, we continue to see opportunities for fundamental gains in every line item. Opportunities that will make our customer experiences simpler and more fun, will make our costs lower and will make our business more efficient. Our plan is to unlock these opportunities with the same discipline that has driven our success so far. Something that has always been true in the past remains true today and that we suspect will be true for a long time is that prioritizing our opportunities is the hardest part of making significant progress quickly.

With constantly evolving technology, constantly evolving customer preferences and expectations and an ambitious group of thoughtful people, new opportunities emerge faster than we are able to take advantage of the ones we previously saw. With AI, this is more true today than it has ever been. The future is bright. Selling 3 million cars per year with 13.5% adjusted EBITDA margin in 5 to 10 years is very achievable. There's a lot left to do, and there's an excited team ready to do it. We will continue to aggressively pursue rapid progress, and we aren't tired. The march continues. Mark?

Mark Jenkins
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Ernie, and thank you all for joining us today. The third quarter was another very strong quarter for Carvana that was driven by our team's continued focus on identifying further fundamental gains and operating efficiencies and developing foundational capabilities while also pursuing growth. We set new records for retail units sold, revenue, adjusted EBITDA and GAAP operating income. And for the first time, our annual revenue run rate exceeded $20 million, a significant milestone pointing toward the long-term scale of our business.

Moving to our third quarter results. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons will be on a year-over-year basis. Retail units sold totaled 155,941 in Q3, an increase of 44% and a new company record. Revenue was $5.647 billion, an increase of 55% and also a new company record. Revenue growth exceeded retail units sold growth, primarily due to higher average selling prices and traditional gross revenue treatment for certain vehicles acquired from a large retail marketplace partner.

Consistent with past quarters, our growth in the third quarter was driven by our 3 long-term drivers of growth: a continuously improving customer offering, increasing understanding, awareness and trust and increasing inventory selection and other benefits of scale. Our strong profitability results in Q3 were again driven by our team's focus on driving fundamental gains and operating efficiencies as well as levering our overhead expenses.

Non-GAAP retail GPU decreased by $77, primarily driven by higher retail depreciation rates. Non-GAAP wholesale GPU decreased by $168, primarily driven by higher wholesale depreciation rates and retail units sold growth outpacing ADESA marketplace growth. Non-GAAP other GPU increased by $63. This change was primarily driven by improvements in cost of funds and higher finance and VSC attach rates, partially offset by higher-than-normalized loan sales relative to originations in Q3 2024. Looking ahead to Q4, we expect sequential changes in retail GPU, wholesale GPU and other GPU in a similar range to last year, with the latter primarily reflecting sharing fundamental gains with customers through lower interest rates.

In October, we expanded on several existing loan sale partnerships with agreements for the sale of up to $14 billion of future loan principal. First, we upsized and extended our Ally agreement for up to $6 billion of loan purchases through October 2027, an increase from $4 billion through April 2026. Second, we entered into a new loan purchase agreement with a loan sale partner for up to $4 billion of loan purchases through October 2027. Third, we entered into an additional loan purchase agreement with another loan sale partner for up to $4 billion of loan purchases through December 2027. The latter 2 agreements formalize existing relationships and establish defined expectations for sale volume and sales procedures throughout the agreement period, highlighting the significant fundamental strength of our vertically integrated finance platform.

Q3 was another strong quarter for demonstrating the power of our model to lever SG&A expenses. Our 44% growth in retail units sold led to a $319 reduction in non-GAAP SG&A expense per retail unit sold. Carvana operations portion of SG&A expense decreased by $96 per retail unit sold, primarily driven by our operational efficiency initiatives. We continue to expect Carvana operations expense per retail unit sold to decrease over time as we deliver fundamental gains and operating efficiency. The overhead portion of SG&A decreased by $314 per retail unit sold, driven by continued leverage of our overhead expenses with greater retail units sold. Advertising expense increased by $139 per retail unit sold as we continue to take advantage of opportunities to invest in building awareness, understanding and trust of our customer offering. We expect advertising expense in Q4 to be similar to or slightly higher than Q3.

We continue to see opportunities for significant SG&A expense leverage over time and as we scale, driven by both continued improvements in operational expenses as well as leverage in the fixed components of our cost structure. Net income was $263 million in Q3, an increase of $115 million. Net income margin was 4.7%, an increase from 4%. GAAP operating income was $552 million, an increase of $215 million and a new company record. GAAP operating margin was 9.8% and an increase from 9.2%. Adjusted EBITDA was $637 million, an increase of $208 million and a new company record. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 11.3%, a decrease from 11.7%.

As previously discussed, our adjusted EBITDA is very high quality compared to many rapidly growing companies due to our relatively low noncash expenses, which we'll continue to lever with scale. We converted approximately 80% -- 87% of adjusted EBITDA into GAAP operating income, an increase from 79% last year. As previously noted, we currently carry many expenses that support retail unit sales capacity of over 1 million units and expect our GAAP operating income to grow faster than adjusted EBITDA over time.

In the third quarter, we took additional steps to further strengthen our balance sheet with a continued goal to drive toward investment-grade credit ratios. In Q3, we retired the remaining $559 million of our 2028 senior secured notes, primarily through proceeds from $539 million of equity issuance through our ATM program. Following quarter end, we also retired $98 million of 2025 senior unsecured notes due October 2025, bringing our total quantum of corporate debt retired in 2024 and 2025 to $1.2 billion. With more than $2.1 billion of cash on the balance sheet, our net debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA ratio is now down to just 1.5x, our strongest financial position ever.

Our results through Q3 position us well for a strong finish to 2025. Looking toward the fourth quarter, we expect the following as long as the environment remains stable. Retail units sold above 150,000, and adjusted EBITDA at or above the high end of our previously communicated range of $2 billion to $2.2 billion for the full year 2025.

In conclusion, Q3 marked another outstanding quarter for Carvana. We remain very excited about progressing toward our long-term phase of driving profitable growth and pursuing our goals of becoming the largest and most profitable auto retailer and buying and selling millions of cars. Thanks for your attention. We'll now take questions.