Darden Restaurants, Inc. (DRI) Q2 2026 Earnings Call December 18, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Courtney Aquilla
Ricardo Cardenas - CEO, President & Director
Rajesh Vennam - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Brian Bittner - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
David Palmer - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Brian Harbour - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jacob Aiken-Phillips - Melius Research LLC
Jake Bartlett - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Andrew Charles - TD Cowen, Research Division
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Sara Senatore - BofA Securities, Research Division
James Salera - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Lauren Silberman - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Peter Saleh - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Jon Tower - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Jeffrey Farmer - Gordon Haskett Research Advisors
Dennis Geiger - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Andrew Barish - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Christopher O'Cull - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Andrew Strelzik - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Danilo Gargiulo - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Gregory Francfort - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Brian Vaccaro - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
James Sanderson - Northcoast Research Partners, LLC
John Ivankoe - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Hyun Jin Cho - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Darden Restaurants Q2 Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Courtney Aquilla, Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations. Courtney, please go ahead.

Courtney Aquilla

Thank you, Kevin. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for participating on today's call. Joining me are Rick Cardenas, Darden's President and CEO; and Raj Vennam, CFO.

As a reminder, comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Those risks are described in the company's press release, which was distributed this morning, and in the filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We are simultaneously broadcasting a presentation during this call, which is available on the Financials tab in the Investors section of our website at darden.com.

Today's discussion and presentation include certain non-GAAP measurements, and reconciliations of these measurements are included in the presentation. Looking ahead, we plan to release fiscal 2026 third quarter earnings on Thursday, March 19, before the market opens, followed by a conference call.

During today's call, all references to industry results refer to the Black Box Intelligence Casual Dining benchmark, excluding Darden. During our fiscal second quarter, average same-restaurant sales for the industry grew 1.3% and average same-restaurant guest count decreased 0.4%. Additionally, median same-restaurant sales for the industry grew 1.9% and median same-restaurant guest counts decreased 0.5%.

This morning, Rick will share some brief remarks on the quarter, Raj will provide detail on our second quarter financial performance and share our updated fiscal 2026 financial outlook. Then Rick will close with some final comments.

Now I'll turn the call over to Rick.

Ricardo Cardenas
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Courtney. Good morning, everyone. We had a strong quarter that exceeded our sales expectations as each of our segments delivered positive same-restaurant sales. Commodity headwinds were stronger than we anticipated as beef prices remained at historically high levels throughout the quarter. Our restaurant teams did a great job of being brilliant with the basics during the quarter, driving record or near record guest satisfaction scores across all of our brands.

At the Darden level, we continue to leverage our 4 competitive advantages to enable our brands to compete effectively and continue providing strong value to our guests. The power of our scale enables us to continue to price below inflation over the long term and not pass all the costs on to our guests while the breadth of our portfolio enables our brands to stick to their strategy, even if they are overly impacted by a single commodity.

We opened 17 new restaurants during the quarter and are on pace to exceed our planned openings for the full fiscal year. These new restaurants opened faster than planned, collectively contributing 40 additional operating weeks versus our plan for the quarter. This is a testament to the outstanding job Todd Burrowes and the entire development team, led by Marc Braun, have done to strengthen our pipeline.

Olive Garden delivered positive same-restaurant sales of 4.7% for the quarter, driven by the success of the Never Ending Pasta Bowl promotion and first-party delivery, combined with strong operational execution that led to all-time high guest satisfaction scores. For the fourth consecutive year, the starting price for Never Ending Pasta Bowl was $13.99. Preference was strong and refill rates reached a record high, demonstrating that guests continue to find abundance and meaningful value at Olive Garden in this environment.

First-party delivery, through our partnership with Uber Direct, continue to drive strong results. This channel attracts younger, more affluent guests to crave Olive Garden at home, value convenience and order more frequently. These guests have a higher check average than dine-in guests. Uber Direct sales represented 4% of total sales for the quarter, and approximately half of that was incremental.

As we have discussed on recent calls, across the portfolio, we are placing a greater emphasis on sales growth and reinvesting to drive long-term success. At Olive Garden, the success of first-party delivery is helping fund investments such as the addition of the lighter portion section on our menu, which features 7 existing dishes with a smaller portion and a lower price. This section is designed to give guests more choices and is offered in addition to the Olive Garden's regular portion sizes.

Olive Garden has seen a double-digit increase in affordability perceptions from guests who order from the lighter portions menu and an increase in frequency among these guests, which should help build traffic over time. 40% of restaurants offered this menu during the quarter, and they added another 20% of locations early in the third quarter. Olive Garden plans to complete the rollout system-wide in January.

As we begin the third quarter, the Olive Garden team is poised to build on their momentum. They are currently offering 2 fan favorites for a limited time, ravioli di portobello and braised beef tortellini. Thousands of Olive Garden fans requested the return of these iconic dishes, which included multiple online petitions to bring them back.

Turning to LongHorn Steakhouse. The team's ongoing commitment to their strategy rooted in quality, simplicity and culture continue to guide their success as they delivered strong top line momentum, driven by same-restaurant sales growth of 5.9%. Their relentless focus on executing every dish on their menu to their high standards was reflected in an all-time high [indiscernible] score for the quarter. Their ability to consistently operate at this high level is enabled by having one of the most experienced teams in the industry. In fact, LongHorn further strengthened their impressive retention by setting their record low for team member turnover during the quarter.

The investments LongHorn has made in food quality, combined with their grilling expertise, have built strong guest loyalty. And to further build on their leadership in food quality, LongHorn brought back a guest favorite for the holidays, their 14 ounce, 7-Pepper Crusted New York Strip with brown butter sauce, which was met with enthusiastic reviews by guests and social media influencers.

Same-restaurant sales for our Other Business segment grew 3.1% during the quarter, driven by strong performance at Yard House. During the quarter, Yard House's Oktoberfest event returned for the fifth year. This event continued to deepen guest engagement and drive results through limited-time menu offerings that strengthen Yard House's competitive advantages of a socially energized bar and distinctive culinary with broad appeal. The event also featured a $5 refillable beer stein that was a hit with guests, with all steins selling out within the first few weeks.

Also during the quarter, Yard House began rolling out first-party delivery through our partnership with Uber Direct. While the impact on total sales won't be as significant as what we've seen at Olive Garden, the team is pleased with the initial results and plans to continue rolling it out to additional restaurants in the third quarter.

Same-restaurant sales for the Fine Dining segment grew 0.8% for the quarter, driven by strong performance at Ruth's Chris Steak House and improving trends at The Capital Grille. As guests continue to seek price certainty, Ruth's Chris brought back its limited time offer, featuring a 3-course menu for $55. It was a key driver of sales and traffic growth and featured a new 8-ounce prime fit cut strip and 2 guest favorites, Stuffed Chicken and Salmon & Shrimp. Each entree came with a super salad, an individual side and a dessert.

The Capital Grille's Wagyu & Wine event returned during the quarter, featuring a choice of a Dave Phinney wine and Wagyu Burger for $35. This event delivered strong guest preference and sales momentum at The Capital Grille continued to grow throughout the quarter.

I am pleased with our performance as we move back into the back half of our year. Our brand teams have the appropriate plans in place and the power of Darden positions us well to win in a competitive environment.

Now I'll turn it over to Raj.

Rajesh Vennam
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you, Rick, and good morning, everyone. As Rick mentioned, the second quarter was another strong sales quarter for Darden with top line momentum exceeding our expectations. While elevated commodity costs, driven by beef, were a significant headwind for the quarter, we priced 130 basis points below inflation as we remain committed to providing strong value to our guests. This large investment in underpricing inflation resulted in restaurant-level margins being below last year. The near record beef costs have sustained longer than we anticipated and are likely to remain elevated into the third quarter, with some relief as we get into the fourth quarter.

In the second quarter, we generated $3.1 billion of total sales, 7% higher than last year, driven by same-restaurant sales growth of 4.3%, the addition of 30 net new restaurants and the acquisition of Chuy's in October of last year. Both our same-restaurant sales and same-restaurant guest counts were in the top decile of the industry again this quarter. Same-restaurant sales exceeded the industry benchmark by 300 basis points and the positive gap widened throughout the quarter.

Adjusted diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.08 were 2.5% higher than last year. We generated $466 million of adjusted EBITDA and returned $396 million to our shareholders this quarter by paying $174 million in dividends and repurchasing $222 million in shares.

Now looking at our adjusted margin analysis compared to last year. Food and beverage expenses were 90 basis points higher, primarily due to elevated beef costs driving total commodities inflation of approximately 5.5% for the quarter.

Restaurant labor was 10 basis points higher with total labor inflation of 3.3%. Restaurant labor in our comparable restaurants was favorable to last year, driven by productivity improvements that more than offset pricing below labor inflation. Restaurant expenses were 10 basis points higher as sales leverage was more than offset by Uber Direct fees and brand mix with the addition of Chuy's.

Marketing expenses were 10 basis points lower due to sales leverage. We had incremental marketing activity in the quarter that was funded by cost savings. This all resulted in restaurant-level EBITDA of 18.7%.

Adjusted G&A expenses were 60 basis points favorable, driven by leverage from sales growth and lower incentive compensation accrual as well as favorable mark-to-market expense on our deferred compensation. Due to the way we hedge mark-to-market expense, this favorability is fully offset in the tax line. Our adjusted effective tax rate for the quarter was 13.2%, and we generated $243 million in adjusted earnings from continuing operations, which was 7.8% of sales.

Looking at our segments, all segments grew sales for the quarter, driven by positive same-restaurant sales. The high beef cost pressured segment profit margins at all of our segments, except for Olive Garden. Total sales for Olive Garden increased by 5.4%, driven by strong same-restaurant sales and traffic growth as well as the addition of 11 net new restaurants. The sales momentum continued from prior quarters with same-restaurant sales in the top decile of the industry and outperformed the industry benchmark by 340 basis points.

Olive Garden delivered a strong segment profit margin of 21.8% for the quarter, which was 30 basis points above last year, even with an approximate 20 basis points of margin investment related to the lighter portions menu and the continued impact of delivery fees.

At LongHorn, total sales increased by 9.3%, driven by same-restaurant sales growth of 5.9% and the addition of 21 new restaurants. The sustained sales and traffic outperformance resulted in same-restaurant sales and traffic in the top decile again this quarter. The LongHorn team is doing a great job of staying focused on their strategy and maintaining momentum despite elevated beef costs. Our measured approach in reacting to inflation resulted in pricing 320 basis points below inflation at LongHorn that resulted in segment profit margin of 16.2%.

Total sales at Fine Dining segment increased 3.3%, driven by positive same-restaurant sales and the addition of 3 net new restaurants. High beef costs also had a large impact on the brands in the segment, resulting in segment profit margin of 14.8%, 280 basis points lower than last year.

The Other Business segment sales increased 11.3%, with positive same-restaurant sales of 3.1% and the acquisition of Chuy's benefiting part of the quarter. The positive sales growth and the continued productivity improvements in multiple brands within this segment were not enough to fully offset the elevated commodity pressures from beef and the impact of delivery fee. This resulted in segment profit margin of 13.4%, 60 basis points lower than last year.

Turning to our financial outlook for fiscal 2026. We have updated our guidance to reflect the year-to-date performance, the evolving commodities environment and the expectations for the back half of the year. We now expect total sales growth for the year of 8.5% to 9.3%; same-restaurant sales growth of 3.5% to 4.3%; 65 to 70 new restaurant openings; total capital spending of $750 million to $775 million; total inflation of approximately 3.5%, with commodities inflation of 4% to 5%; and approximately 116.5 million diluted average shares outstanding. All other aspects of our guidance remain unchanged, including adjusted diluted net earnings per share between $10.50 and $10.70, of which approximately $0.20 is related to the addition of 53rd week.

We expect earnings per share growth in the third and fourth quarters to sequentially improve as the gap between pricing and total inflation narrows in the back half of the year. Specifically, for the third quarter, we expect earnings per share growth in the mid-single digits compared to the third quarter of last year.

In summary, we're pleased with our strong top line performance and continued industry outperformance this quarter. While our pricing strategy and amid elevated commodity costs has impacted margins in the near term, we believe it's the right approach to support our long-term success. As we move through the rest of the fiscal year, we remain confident in our ability to grow sales, manage costs and deliver value to our guests and shareholders.

Now I'll turn it back to Rick.

Ricardo Cardenas
CEO, President & Director

As I reflect on our performance, I'm reminded of the power of the platform we built over time and our ability to navigate whatever comes our way. When you look at our company, there are 3 key attributes that we believe make Darden a great company and a great stock.

First, our winning strategy grounded in our 4 competitive advantages and our commitment to managing the business for the long term has led to a long track record of success. Over our 30-year history as a public company, Darden has achieved annualized total shareholder return of 10% or greater for any 10 fiscal year period when considering Darden stock appreciation plus dividend yield.

Second, we have a clear road map to grow our portfolio of iconic brands, which includes 2 dominant brands, 3 high-potential growth brands and several balanced brands that are leaders in their respective categories. And third, our strong commitment to disciplined capital stewardship enables us to return capital to shareholders while making appropriate investments in the business for long-term success.

I'm incredibly proud of the results we continue to deliver for our shareholders, and we remain committed to executing our strategy to drive shareholder value now and for generations.

Finally, I want to take a moment to acknowledge the recent passing of Darden's first CEO, Joe Lee. Joe was the visionary leader whose leadership helped shape not only Darden, but the entire casual dining industry. I was fortunate to work with Joe. And one of the things that always stood out to me was the care and compassion he had for his people. He always said, if you take care of your people, they will take care of your guests. Those words remain fundamental to Darden's culture today and they are especially meaningful during the holidays.

Now is the busiest time of the year in our restaurants, and I'm so proud of our 200,000 team members who do such a remarkable job of nourishing and delighting everyone they serve. On behalf of our entire leadership team and the Darden Board of Directors, thank you to all of our team members for everything you do. I wish you and your families a happy holiday season.

Now we'll take your questions.

