Dynex Capital, Inc. (DX) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 26, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Alison G. Griffin - Vice President of Investor Relations
Byron L. Boston - Co-CEO & Chairman of the Board
Smriti L. Popenoe - Co-CEO, President & Director
Terrence Connelly - Chief Investment Officer
Michael Sartori
Robert Colligan - COO, CFO & Secretary

Conference Call Participants

Douglas Harter - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Trevor Cranston - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jason Stewart
Bose George - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Eric Hagen - BTIG, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Dynex Capital, Inc. Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Alison Griffin, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Alison G. Griffin
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning. The press release associated with today's call was issued and filed with the SEC this morning, January 26, 2026. You may view the press release on the homepage of the Dynex website at dynexcapital.com as well as on the SEC's website at sec.gov.

Before we begin, we wish to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words believe, expect, forecast, anticipate, estimate, project, plan and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements that are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified.

The company's actual results and timing of certain events could differ considerably from those projected and/or contemplated by those forward-looking statements as a result of unforeseen external factors or risks. For additional information on these factors or risks, please refer to our disclosures filed with the SEC, which may be found on the Dynex website under Investor as well as on the SEC's website.

This conference call is being broadcast live over the Internet with a streaming slide presentation, which can be found through the webcast link on the website. The slide presentation may also be referenced under quarterly reports on the Investor Center page.

Joining me on the call today are Byron Boston, Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer; Smriti Popenoe, Co-Chief Executive Officer and President; Rob Colligan, Chief Financial Officer; T.J. Connelly, Chief Investment Officer; and Mike Sartori, Head of Capital Markets.

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Byron and Smriti.

Byron L. Boston
Co-CEO & Chairman of the Board

Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. As we start 2026, let me anchor where we are in our company's evolution. Since I joined Dynex in 2008, the team and I have always operated and competed with a performance-first mentality and with the ethical stewardship of our shareholders' capital at the core of our decision-making. This focus has created a repeatable and sustainable performance edge, delivering industry-beating returns for our shareholders.

All sensibles, risk management first, treating liquidity and reputation as a strategic asset and a culture grounded in learning, kindness, trust to curiosity continue to differentiate us. What sets our approach apart is not the ability to predict every environment, but the discipline to adapt in many environments. Resilience is what ultimately enables Dynex shareholders to enjoy compounding over decades. Our framework gives us the confidence to lean into the right moments of opportunity and endure turbulence without being forced to retreat.

We can even advance during periods of dislocation, while others pull back. Over time, those small behavioral advantages have compounded into meaningful performance differences, creating the foundation to propel us to this phase of Dynex at the start of this decade.

Smriti L. Popenoe
Co-CEO, President & Director

Our strong start in 2020 gave us the springboard to create a resilient company at the intersection of capital markets and real estate finance. The decisions we made early this decade to intentionally raise capital in smaller amounts, gradually building our equity base, while generating top-tier returns set the foundation for today's sustained value-creating growth. Our momentum continues to rise as we methodically execute our strategy, and the results speak clearly.

Over this decade, through December 31, 2025, and Dynex shareholders experienced a 67% total return or nearly 9% annualized with dividends reinvested, outperforming the REM ETF by over 8,000 basis points or 700 basis points annually. 2025 was an outstanding year. Dynex shareholders earned a 29.4% total shareholder return, driven by both dividend income and significant share price performance, in a year marked by policy complexity, shifting rate expectations and geopolitical cross currents.

As of the end of last week, our total equity market capitalization, including our preferred shares, was $3 billion. In just 13 months, we have almost tripled the size of our company, creating resilience, strategic flexibility and scale for our shareholders. Delivering these results required and accelerated significant evolution across the company. We added depth and breadth across the team, building our legal team, with a new Chief Legal Officer and our investments team with 2 senior investment professionals.

We planned, commissioned and delivered 2 new offices in Richmond and New York City, and we have successfully made a transition to T.J. Connelly as our Chief Investment Officer. To reflect the needs of our growing strategically focused enterprise, we separated the roles of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. Rob Colligan, who held both titles will take on an expanded CFO function, including the building out of our corporate development capabilities. Today, we welcome Meakin Bennett as our new Chief Operating Officer, a seasoned operator with deep financial and operational expertise from Fannie Mae, Morgan Stanley and GE Capital and a U.S. Navy veteran Meakin brings leadership and discipline to strengthen our platform. She will lead the modernization of our operational backbone to enable scalable, efficient growth for the long term.

Looking ahead, we are operating our business in a rapidly changing global landscape. Human conflict remains the key factor, creating surprises that result in policy and market volatility. We have been prepared for the greater possibility of a wider range of outcomes and for some years now, we have called this a flat fat tail distribution. It has tilted our risk appetite towards liquidity and flexibility. Demographic trends in developed economies are reshaping growth, fiscal capacity and the cost of capital.

For years, low rates and central bank support masked the rising pressures. But in the end, fewer workers, savers and taxpayers make growth harder to generate and debt more expensive to carry. Policymakers face increasing temptation to use inflation or manage markets as a pressure release and this pattern is global. In such an environment, government policy can mean simultaneously increased risk and opportunity. This has been true for us since 2020. Our portfolio construction continues to reflect the reality of shifting policy across a variety of factors, including active government intervention in the housing market and monetary policy.

On the other hand, the global demand for income continues to rise, and that creates a powerful backdrop for our capital raising strategy. Investors across the world are searching for stable, repeatable cash flows, in an environment marked by demographic shifts, funding gaps and persistent volatility, platforms that can deliver high-quality income with stewardship, transparency, liquidity and disciplined risk management are increasingly scarce.

Dynex sits directly in that space and our ability to generate reliable dividends backed by a resilient portfolio naturally attracts capital that is seeking durable income. At the same time, the continued expansion of passive investing provides an additional structural tailwind. As passive vehicles grow, they are required to own larger positions in companies with scale and liquidity, raising capital at accretive levels, expands our equity base, improve trading liquidity and increases Dynex's relevance within these passive strategies.

The combination of rising global demand for income and the mechanical bid from passive capital strengthens our shareholder base, lowers our cost of capital and drive the long-term compounding that we aim to deliver. These factors support the building of Dynex for scale and strength growing the company in ways that embed resilience into the core of our model so we can navigate a wider set of outcomes and keep delivering long-term value.

We are evolving our business steadily, and we'll continue to fine-tune people, process, technology and structure to stay aligned with our strategy. The company is well positioned, and we are prepared for the next phase of our journey, grounded in our strategy, anchored by our core values and focused on long-term value creation.

I'll now turn it over to the team to detail more of how the strategy is being put to work and to share our results for the year. T.J.?

Terrence Connelly
Chief Investment Officer

Thank you, Smriti. This decade, we have emphasized that government policy is one of the most powerful forces shaping asset returns, often more influential than traditional fundamentals alone. Government policy played a large role in driving returns last year and continued to do so in 2026. In a year that began with an unusual degree of macro uncertainty, our portfolio total economic return was 10.2% in the fourth quarter and 21.7% for 2025, the highest TER this decade.

We entered 2025 with mortgages at historically wide spreads to interest rate hedges and a high degree of policy uncertainty. This presented an excellent opportunity to raise and deploy capital at higher leverage and wider spreads, and the strength in our results reflects the effectiveness of this strategy. We raised capital methodically and consistently deployed it into assets at wider spreads, supporting compelling future dividends for our shareholders.

As we begin 2026, spreads have tightened further and policy direction in the MBS market has become far clearer. Recent actions and guidance now point toward a more stable and supportive framework for the mortgage market. creating a strong foundation for forward returns and greater confidence in the path ahead for MBS spreads. Our capital raising was led by Mike Sartori, our Head of Capital Markets, and he will give you more details.

Michael Sartori

Thanks, T.J. We pursue a distinctive strategic capital raising approach and partner closely with our brokerage counterparts to execute Dynex's disciplined strategy. In 2025, we executed our capital raising strategy with precision and intention. We raised capital accretively through the aftermarket program and worked hand-in-hand across the team to invest and hedge the capital on a real-time basis.

This approach allowed us to maintain tight alignment between stronger valuations on our stock and wide mortgage spreads. Over the course of the year, we raised and invested over $1 billion as our price-to-book valuation rose. As we move into 2026, we will continue to follow the same methodical disciplined playbook. We expect to issue when it is accretive, deploying the capital and investments, generating economic returns above our hurdle rate.

In the first few trading days of January, we raised nearly $350 million, and share count as of last Thursday, was 199.6 million. T.J. will further discuss the year ahead.

Terrence Connelly
Chief Investment Officer

Thanks, Mike. While MBS spreads are tighter today than they were for much of last year, the overall return environment might be even better, driven by policy support for housing finance, higher liquidity and an environment with more opportunities to tactically create value. The Trump administration's recent announcement to increase the GSE retained portfolios by $200 billion marks a return to portfolio growth for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and provides a meaningful technical tailwind for spreads.

For Dynex, this is a positive. It supports valuations and it will likely reset the spread regime tighter, while limiting spread widening. The impact of the GSEs is unique. The backstop bid, especially focused on spreads allows a host of investors to reassess the amount of spread risk they are willing to take. We believe the impact will return us to a tighter range in spreads with limited spread widening, possibly like that seen before the financial crisis, as you will see on the left-hand side of the spread chart in our earnings presentation on Page 12.

We expect the return to this type of spread environment would enhance the risk return profile of the assets we own and provide attractive returns for our ongoing capital deployment. Even before the GSE buying announcement, we expected demand to overwhelm supply in 2026, led by bank demand of over $100 billion. While we expect the GSEs to be price-sensitive buyers and even for money managers to slowly reduce their MBS overweight as spreads tighten, the supply and demand balance in agency mortgages will likely lean towards higher net demand for many quarters.

As the GSE-retained portfolios grow, it is unclear how they will hedge. We are also mindful that in past periods of high portfolio growth, the GSEs had active hedging programs and swaps would be their most likely hedge if they chose to hedge duration. We also expect that GSE convexity hedging would impact technicals in the market for options. The administration appears clearly focused on reducing mortgage rates, and we remain focused on managing and mitigating convexity risk.

The fourth quarter prepayment environment reinforced one of the clearest lessons of the year. Security selection remains the most reliable and consistent source of alpha in agency MBS. In a market characterized by low, but uneven turnover and periodic spikes and refinancing, avoiding the most prepayment-sensitive collateral was essential for protecting carry and reducing reinvestment risk amid the periodic interest rate volatility. Prepayment dispersion is increasingly driven by micro level factors that reward granular pool work. Technology-enabled optimization at originators and servicers continues to make refinance and retention outreach more targeted and efficient.

The fourth quarter data reaffirms that generating alpha and Agency MBS is not simply about coupon exposure. It is about owning the right pools within those coupons. Our positioning reflects that lesson, avoiding prepayment-sensitive stories and emphasizing structurally more stable collateral. Relative value will also play a larger role in tactical asset allocation, not only within coupons, but within sectors. Of course, mortgage returns are driven not just by spread risk, but also interest rate volatility risk. Given the policy dynamics in today's markets, we expect and plan for periodic bouts of volatility.

Our yield curve exposure is more balanced as the greatest clarity on the policy front is for tighter mortgage spreads. As policy and economic data evolves, we will continually evaluate the curve exposures in our hedges. While longer maturity yields currently offer the potential for larger dispersion than shorter maturity yields, we are mindful that changes in Federal Reserve policy or personnel could shift even shorter maturity yields meaningfully. We strategically added options positions in 2025 to reduce the portfolio's exposure to rate volatility and expect that options will continue to be important in the coming quarters to manage risk.

While policy can evolve quickly, the Agency MBS market looks likely to be supported by a strong tailwind, and the leverage returns for earnings spread income in the best segments of this market remain compelling. Our team at Dynex has a long history of extracting equity-like returns from fixed income in this kind of market regime. We rely on the principle to prepare, not predict. We operate with a flexible mindset, resisting the kind of rigid thinking that could lead us to alter portfolios at exactly the wrong moments.

Our scenario planning gives us the confidence to hold exposures through stress and to stay open to opportunities when others are constrained. That flexibility gives us tremendous optionality and helps us avoid the behavioral traps that destroy value, which is why we've been able to deliver differentiated performance across cycles.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rob, who will give you more details on our outstanding quarter.

Robert Colligan
COO, CFO & Secretary

Thank you, T.J. The total economic return in the fourth quarter was 10.2%, consisting of $0.51 of common dividends and a $0.78 increase in book value per share. For the year, our book value increased $0.75, and we declared $2 of dividends per common share which are paid on a monthly basis. Comprehensive income for the quarter was $190 million and was $354 million for the year. We ended the quarter with leverage of 7.3x total equity.

Our liquidity position remained very strong with $1.4 billion in cash and unencumbered securities at the end of the quarter, representing over 55% of total equity. As mentioned earlier, we've raised $1.5 billion over the last 13 months at the most accretive levels in the company's history. Beyond the resilience and stability that a larger capital base provides, we understand that a larger, more liquid company typically earns a better valuation metric. It's important to us as stewards of your capital to keep these factors in mind as we grow. The TBA and mortgage-backed securities portfolio started the year at $9.8 billion, grew to $15.8 billion at the end of September and ended the year at $19.4 billion. We continue to add to the portfolio after year-end and currently have approximately $22 billion in TBAs and mortgages.

Pools and TBAs we've held and added this year benefited from spread tightening in the second half of the year, which accelerated into year-end and continued into 2026. Our current book value, which has been in the range of $13.85 to $14.05 per share, net of the accrued dividend is up 3% to 4% from year-end. For our year-end tax disclosure, we're estimating that we earned $229 million of taxable earnings, covering all of our preferred dividend and 93% of our common dividend, which will be treated as ordinary income.

The remaining 7% is a nondividend distribution. Our dividend tax reporting will be posted to our company's website by the end of the month. Expenses for the fourth quarter were up as our accrual for performance-related compensation increased, lining up with the strong returns delivered in 2025. Our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of capital are down materially year-over-year from 2.9% of total equity at the close of last year to 2.1% at the close of 2025. We continue to make investments in people and technology to ensure Dynex is built for the future, and our expense ratio may stay at the year-end 2025 levels until additional growth is delivered and new breakpoints and levels of scale are achieved.

With that, I'll turn the call back to Smriti for her closing comments.

Smriti L. Popenoe
Co-CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Rob. As we look ahead, we remain focused on disciplined execution and delivering durable long-term value for our shareholders. We are deeply grateful for the trust you place in us. Trust is a core value at Dynex and ultimately, the product we work to deliver every day. And as a management team invested alongside shareholders, our interests are aligned with yours, and we are committed to stewarding your capital with integrity, transparency and care.

I will now open the call to questions.

