New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) Q2 2026 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Sisi Zhao - Investor Relations Director
Zhihui Yang - Executive President & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Felix Liu - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Yijing Cai - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Lucy Yu - BofA Securities, Research Division
Yikun Zheng - Citic Securities Co., Ltd., Research Division
D. S. Kim - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Timothy Zhao - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Yiran Sheng - CLSA Limited, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good evening, and thank you for standing by for New Oriental's FY 2026 Second Quarter Results Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today's conference, Ms. Sisi Zhao. Thank you. Please go ahead.

Sisi Zhao
Investor Relations Director

Thank you. Hello, everyone, and welcome to New Oriental's Second Fiscal Quarter 2026 Earnings Conference Call. Our financial results for the period were released earlier today and are available on the company's website as well as on Newswire services.

Today, Stephen Yang, Executive President and Chief Financial Officer and I will share New Oriental's latest earnings results and business updates in detail with you. After that, Stephen and I will be available to answer your questions.

Before we continue, please note that the discussion today will contain forward-looking statements made under the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. As such, our results may be materially different from the views expressed today. A number of potential risks and uncertainties are outlined in our public filings with the SEC. New Oriental does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required under applicable law.

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. In addition, a webcast of this conference call will be available on New Oriental's Investor Relations website at investor.neworiental.org.

I will now first turn the call over to Mr. Yang. Stephen, please go ahead.

Zhihui Yang
Executive President & CFO

Thank you, Sisi. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us on the call. I'm pleased to report a strong set of results for the second fiscal quarter of 2026. Our continued focus on operational efficiency and disciplined resource management has been a key driver of our solid performance and continues to support our path to sustainable profitability. We're delighted to see strong profit growth accompanied by a significant improvement in non-GAAP operating margin, up more than 4 percentage points again exceeded our expectations.

This quarter, total net revenue grew 14.7% year-over-year to $1.19 billion. Non-GAAP operating income more than tripled rising 206.9% to $89.1 million. Non-GAAP net income attributable to New Oriental increased 68.6% to $72.9 million. Our core business remains steady and I'm pleased to share that our new initiatives are gaining traction and making meaningful contribution to the group's overall performance.

For the second fiscal quarter, our K-9 new educational business and high school tutoring business reported accelerated year-over-year revenue growth, outpacing the previous quarter. Overseas related business have shown resilience, delivered modest revenue growth despite the ongoing macro economy headwinds, exceeding our earlier conservative expectations. Overseas test prep business recorded a revenue increase of 4% year-over-year. Overseas study consulting business recorded a slightly decrease of about 3% year-over-year. Our adults and university students business recorded a revenue increase of 13% year-over-year.

As for our continued investments in new education initiatives, including non-academic tutoring and our intelligent learning system and devices deliver solid sustainable results. Revenue from this business grew 22% year-over-year this quarter. Our non-academic tutoring business has strong been rolled out to around 60 existing cities. Market penetration has grown steadily, particularly across high-tier cities. The top 10 cities contribute over 60% of the revenue. As for our intelligent learning system and device business, that has been launched in around 60 cities. We're encouraged by improved customer retention and scalability of the new initiative. The top 10 cities contribute over 50% of this business.

Turning to our integrated tourism related business. Our domestic and international study tours and research camp for K-12 and university students were held in 55 cities across China, where the top 10 cities contribute over 50% of the revenue. In parallel, our newly launched tourism offering for middle age and senior citizens have been well expanded -- has been well received now available in 30 key provinces international markets. We've expanded our product portfolio to include culture travel, ,China study tour, global study work and camp education, all designed to deliver enriching experience through culture and knowledge sharing and personal growth.

We're now also exploring opportunities in-house in the wellness sector for seniors. Well patent -- we partner with the over 30 health and wellness spaces in locations such as Hainan, [ Yunnan ] and Guanxi piloting the segment with a light asset model.

With regards to our OMO system, our efforts in developing and revamping our online merging offline teaching platform continues. These efforts aim to deliver more advanced and diversified education service to our customers of all ages. A total of $28.4 million has been invested during this quarter to upgrade and maintain our OMO teaching platforms. Beyond OMO, we continue to focus on our venture in AI, encouraged by the positive market feedback. We have been and will continue to refine an embedded AI across our offerings to strengthen New Oriental's core capabilities. Simultaneously, we're also leveraging AI to streamline internal operations thereby boosting efficiency and providing enhanced support for our teaching staff. As an industry leader, we are dedicated to driving long-term revenue growth through focus on product innovation and operational efficiency. In the upcoming quarters, we look forward to sharing tangible results and positive highlights on performance that are backed by our investments in AI.

Now turning to the East Buy's performance. I'm pleased to share that during the reporting period, East Buy remained customer-centric and made strong progress in both product development and supply chain enhancements. East Buy has expanded beyond its original focus on fresh foods and snacks to offer a broader, more diversified product range. As of the end of the period, private label SPUs reached 801. New categories include seafood, health care products, kitchen, condiments, meat, eggs, dairy and personal care, household and cleaning items, paper goods, home textiles, apparel and innerwear. These offerings are thoughtfully create to meet customers' growing demand to health, quality of life and convenience.

They contribute to boost sales and profit growth to the group, while further optimizing its product mix beyond expanding SPUs, East Buy also focused on product iteration, cost efficiency and targeted marketing to build blockbuster products that resonates strongly with the customers. At the same time, East Buy began exploring off-line channels, leveraging strong brand recognition and New Orientals learning center network. With the vending machine model now profitable in select cities, we plan to scale this initiative nationwide. All in all, we are pleased to see East Buy refocused and back on track, making a positive contribution to the group both top line and bottom line. We expect East Buy to contribute more revenue and profits to the group in the future, while continuously enhancing our brand influence.

Now I will turn the call over to Sisi to share with you about the key financials. Please go ahead, Sisi.

Sisi Zhao
Investor Relations Director

Thank you, Stephen. Let me now walk you through the key financial highlights for the quarter. Operating cost and expenses for the quarter were $1,125.1 million, representing a 10.4% increase year-over-year. Cost of revenues increased by 11.8% year-over-year to $566.9 million. Selling and marketing expenses decreased by 1.1% year-over-year to $194 million. G&A expenses for the quarter increased by 15.2% year-over-year. to $374.3 million. Total share-based compensation expenses, which were allocated to related operating costs and expenses, increased by 156.8% to $21.4 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2026.

Operating income were $66.3 million, representing a 244.4% increase year-over-year. Non-GAAP income from operations for the quarter was $89.1 million, representing a 206.9% increase year-over-year. Net income attributable to New Oriental for the quarter was $45.5 million, representing a 42.3% increase year-over-year. Basic and diluted net income per ADS attributable to New Oriental were $0.29 and $0.28, respectively. Non-GAAP net income attributable to New Oriental for the quarter were $72.9 million, representing a surge of 68.6% year-over-year. Non-GAAP basic and diluted net income per ADS attributable to New Oriental were $0.46 and $0.45, respectively. Net cash flow generated from operations for the second fiscal quarter was approximately $323.5 million and capital expenditure for the quarter were $23.7 million.

Turning to the balance sheet. As of November 30, 2025, New Oriental had cash and cash equivalents of $1,842.9 million. In addition, the company had $1,609.9 million in term deposits and $1,875.2 million in term deposit -- in short-term investments. New Oriental's deferred revenue, which represents cash collected upfront from customers and related revenue that will be recognized as the service our goods were delivered at the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2026 was $2,161.5 million, an increase of 10.2% as compared to $1,960.6 million year-on-year.

Now I'll hand over to Stephen to go through our outlook and guidance.

Zhihui Yang
Executive President & CFO

Thank you, Sisi. We are very encouraged by the strong results we have achieved for this quarter and in the first half of the fiscal year 2026. These outcomes give us greater confidence in our operational resilience and growth trajectory. Looking ahead, we will continue to pursue a balanced approach to revenue and profitability growth. We remain committed to cost discipline and sustainable profitability across all business lines. At the same time, we will take a thoughtful strategic approach to capacity expansion and hiring, ensuring that growth does not come at the expense of quality. We plan to deepen our presence in cities that demonstrate strong top and bottom line performance while continuing to manage resources carefully.

We will closely monitor the pace and scale for new openings, aligning them with operational needs and financial performance throughout the year. Given our positive momentum including the healthy growth of our K-12 business and the recovery of East Buy, we are now in a more optimistic position regarding our business outlook. We expect the total net revenue for the group, including East Buy in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2026, December 1, 2025 to February 28, 2026, to be in the range of $1,313.2 million to $ 1,348.7 million, representing a year-over-year increase in the range of 11% to 14%.

As the full fiscal year 2026, we are raising our total net revenue guidance for the group to be in the range of $5,292.3 million to $5,488.3 million, representing a year-over-year increase in the range of 8% to 12%. These expectations reflect our current outlook, taking into account recent regulatory developments as well as our preliminary view of market conditions, they remain subject to change.

I would like to give you an update on our shareholder return plan for fiscal year 2026. In October 2025, we announced that pursuant to the previous adopt 3-year shareholder return plan, the Board of Directors has approved an ordinary dividend of USD 0.12 per common share or USD 1.2 per ADS to be distributed in 2 installments as part of the shareholder return for fiscal year 2026. As of today, the first installment has been fully paid to shareholders and ADS holders. Details of the second installment will be determined and announced in due course. Additionally, we also announced a share repurchase program in which New Oriental is authorized to repurchase up to $300 million of its ADS or common shares over the subsequent 12 months. As of January 27, yesterday, we had repurchased a total of approximately 1.6 million ADS for grade consideration of approximately $86.3 million from open market under this share repurchase plan.

To conclude, New Oriental remains firmly committed to sustainable growth, delivering high-quality offerings to our customers and creating long-term value for our shareholders. We also continue to work closely with government authorities across provinces and municipalities in China to ensure full compliance with the relevant policies, regulation and measures, and to adjust our operations as needed in this response. This is the end of our fiscal year 2026 Q2 summary.

At this point, I would like with Sisi to open the floor for questions. Operator, please open the call for these. Thank you.

