Elevance Health, Inc. (ELV) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Nathan Rich - Vice President of Investor Relations
Gail Boudreaux - President, CEO & Director
Mark Kaye - Executive VP & CFO
Felicia Norwood - Executive VP & President of Government Health Benefits
Peter Haytaian - Executive VP and President of Carelon & CarelonRx
Morgan Kendrick

Conference Call Participants

Albert Rice - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Andrew Mok - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Justin Lake - Wolfe Research, LLC
Lance Wilkes - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Joshua Raskin - Nephron Research LLC
Lisa Gill - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Ann Hynes - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Christian Borgmeyer - TD Cowen, Research Division
Scott Fidel - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Kevin Fischbeck - BofA Securities, Research Division
Erin Wilson Wright - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Benjamin Hendrix - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
David Windley - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Sarah James - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Jason Cassorla - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
George Hill - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Elevance Health Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to the company's management. Please go ahead.

Nathan Rich
Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning, and welcome to Elevance Health's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Nathan Rich, Vice President of Investor Relations. With us on the earnings call are Gail Boudreaux, President and CEO; Mark Kaye, our CFO; Pete Haytaian, President of Carelon; Morgan Kendrick, President of our Commercial Health Benefits business; and Felicia Norwood, President of our Government Health Benefits business.

Gail will begin the call with a discussion of our fourth quarter performance, our 2026 guidance and the progress we continue to make on our strategic priorities. Mark will then discuss our financial results and outlook in greater detail. After our prepared remarks, the team will be available for Q&A. During the call, we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available on our website, elevancehealth.com.

We will also be making forward-looking statements on this call. Listeners are cautioned that these statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Elevance Health. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. We advise listeners to carefully review the risk factors discussed in today's press release and in our quarterly filings with the SEC.

I will now turn the call over to Gail.

Gail Boudreaux
President, CEO & Director

Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. Affordability remains the central challenge in healthcare. At Elevance Health, our focus is on improving outcomes, making care easier to access and navigate and managing costs responsibly. Our commitment to whole person health shapes how we deliver on our strategy by strengthening care coordination, reducing unnecessary complexity and creating a simpler experience for those we serve.

Before I go through the business, there are 3 points I want to underscore. First, 2026 is a year of execution and repositioning. And the outlook we provided today reflects prudent, achievable assumptions, grounded in pricing discipline, operational rigor and targeted investments. Second, even in a dynamic environment, we are acting decisively in the areas within our control to strengthen margins, reduce volatility and improve the consistency of our performance.

And third, as those actions take hold, we expect to return to at least 12% adjusted EPS growth in 2027 off our ending 2026 earnings baseline, supported by the earnings power of our diversified platform. Consistent with that approach, we are establishing 2026 adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance of at least $25.50. As you consider the year-over-year comparison, it's important to remember that our 2025 results included approximately $3.75 per share of favorable nonrecurring items.

Let me walk through how we are positioning the portfolio. In Medicaid, we continue to see our rates lag elevated acuity and utilization, and we are working urgently with state partners on both rate actions and program design changes that support the long-term sustainability of the Medicaid program. We continue to view 2026 as a trough year. We expect our Medicaid operating margin to be approximately negative 1.75% with improvement over time as rates incorporate more current experience and our actions take hold.

We are also preparing for new eligibility and community engagement requirements under recently enacted federal legislation, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. As these changes are phased in by states, we expect Medicaid membership may decline and the acuity of the population may shift over time, and we have reflected that in our planning assumptions. We believe this is manageable within the context of our diversified enterprise and long-term growth strategy, and we're approaching these changes constructively with state partners with a focus on continuity of care and program stability.

Turning to Medicare. Our execution during the annual election period was aligned with our emphasis on delivering greater value for members and strengthening our performance while maintaining stable share in markets that are core to our long-term growth. We expect Medicare Advantage membership to decline in the high teens percentage range in 2026, reflecting deliberate portfolio actions and stability in our dual eligible membership.

The actions we've taken and the composition of our membership should support meaningful margin improvement in 2026. In the individual ACA market, we've repositioned our plans with discipline to reflect higher costs observed this year and the expiration of enhanced subsidies while maintaining value and access for consumers.

Our Commercial business continues to have healthy momentum, particularly in national accounts, supported by a productive selling season, favorable client retention and new opportunities to expand our reach through the second Blue bid process. We remain disciplined in our pricing and focused on delivering sustainable margins while helping employers address affordability through whole health solutions that integrate a member's medical, pharmacy and behavioral health needs.

Our integrated approach continues to resonate in the market, and we are pleased that 40 employers over the past 5 years have selected our Anthem-affiliated plans as their sole carrier. And finally, Carelon is increasingly recognized as a differentiated platform in the market with growing demand for its solutions in managing high-cost, complex areas of healthcare. Near-term growth will be moderated by lower health plan membership, most pronounced in CarelonRx, while Carelon Services is less impacted by membership dynamics, reflecting its broad mix of external relationships and value-based arrangements.

As our business mix evolves and we make targeted investments to strengthen the foundation, we are also refining certain long-term margin expectations to reflect a more prudent view of the forward environment. Our long-term enterprise margin target is 5% to 6%. For Health Benefits, Carelon and CarelonRx, we are targeting mid-single-digit margins with our Carelon Services target unchanged. These updates are intended to provide a clearer, more durable framework for evaluating performance, and they do not change our focus on disciplined execution, durable earnings growth and strong cash generation.

Stepping back, we view 2026 as a year of execution and repositioning. Across Medicaid, Medicare Advantage and ACA, the dynamics we've described reflect a combination of policy-driven changes and deliberate portfolio and pricing actions designed to strengthen performance consistency. And we are aligning our cost structure and operating priorities accordingly.

That's why we believe we have a clear line of sight to improve performance as we move through this year and into 2027. Now let me turn to the actions we have underway. We are strengthening our ability to anticipate emerging utilization trends and improve care coordination by leveraging actionable data and advanced analytics.

These capabilities help us identify trends earlier and address inefficiencies in the system while supporting timely access to appropriate high-quality care. In Medicaid, we're strengthening our analytics to identify outlier utilization and billing patterns in high-cost substance use disorder treatment settings while maintaining access to clinically appropriate care.

These insights are enabling targeted actions, including provider education, claims review enhancements and payment accuracy and compliance initiatives where appropriate, consistent with program requirements and clinical guidelines. We're able to execute with confidence because we've built and are scaling capabilities that improve outcomes and reduce costs in complex areas of healthcare.

In 2026, we will further strengthen specialty pharmacy management, advance behavioral health support and expand care management programs for members with elevated care needs. Established programs in oncology and serious mental illness are delivering savings for our health plans in the face of heightened utilization trend. Our patient advocacy programs now serve over 7 million members, up nearly 20% from last year.

Through proactive tailored support, we help members navigate the system with greater confidence, remove points of friction and close gaps in care, especially for individuals with greater care needs where early engagement can materially improve outcomes and reduce downstream costs. And we remain deeply committed to improving the experience of care providers. We remain on track to exceed our commitment that 80% of prior authorization decisions will be made in real time in 2027, particularly for routine approved services, supporting faster access to care and reducing administrative burden for care providers.

Through our HealthOS platform, we're enabling real-time data exchange that aligns information across the system, streamlines interactions with care providers and makes it easier to deliver care. In summary, while the environment we operate in continues to evolve, our strategic direction remains clear. We are entering 2026 with prudent planning assumptions, focused execution and targeted investments to unlock the embedded earnings power of our diversified platform.

And based on the actions underway this year, we remain confident in our long-term algorithm and our expectation to return to at least 12% adjusted EPS growth in 2027. Before closing, I want to thank our associates for their unwavering commitment to our purpose throughout 2025. In the face of a challenging year for our industry, our teams operated with integrity, compassion and a deep sense of responsibility to the people and communities we serve.

Their dedication is the foundation of our performance today and the progress we are building for the future, and I am deeply grateful for the impact they continue to make across Elevance Health.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Mark for a more detailed review of our financial results and outlook.

Mark Kaye
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Gail, and good morning. Elevance Health reported adjusted diluted earnings per share of $3.33 for the fourth quarter and $30.29 for the full year. Relative to our guidance, fourth quarter results benefited from greater tax favorability than anticipated, increasing the full year contribution from nonrecurring items to $3.75 per share.

Solid underlying performance in the quarter enabled us to advance a portion of the investments we had planned for 2026 and to support our workforce as we enter the year. Throughout 2025, we remain focused on aligning pricing to elevated cost trends, refining our product portfolio and investing selectively in capabilities that differentiate our model and support sustainable growth. We ended the year with 45.2 million members, a decrease of approximately 500,000 year-over-year, principally reflecting a decline in Medicaid membership due to continued eligibility reverifications.

Operating revenue for the quarter totaled $49.3 billion, an increase of 10% from the prior year, driven by premium rate adjustments in recognition of higher cost trends and acquisitions completed in the past year. Our consolidated benefit expense ratio was 93.5% for the quarter and 90% for the full year, in line with our guidance. Cost trend development was consistent with our expectations across major lines of business.

Our adjusted operating expense ratio was 10.8% for the fourth quarter and 10.5% for the full year. We are managing the enterprise with discipline while making targeted investments to support our long-term performance. During the quarter, we pulled forward 1/4 of the approximately $1 per share of incremental investments that we had anticipated in 2026.

Our Medicaid operating margin ended the year slightly favorable to the outlook provided last quarter. We are encouraged by the initial results of our targeted efforts to better coordinate care and support high-quality, low-cost treatment pathways. While the benefit of these actions will build over the course of the year, we continue to expect cost trend to be in the mid-single-digit percent range in 2026 with rates lagging this level of trend.

As such, we anticipate our Medicaid operating margin for 2026 to be approximately minus 1.75%, in line with what we shared last quarter. Medicare cost trend in the quarter was consistent with our expectations. For 2026, we made deliberate changes to our plan offerings and intentionally exited select geographies, prioritizing plans that deliver value to members while producing sustainable financial performance.

As you heard from Gail, we now expect Medicare Advantage membership to decline in the high teens percentage range in 2026 while achieving meaningful margin improvement. We have also repositioned our individual ACA business for higher expected morbidity following the expiration of enhanced subsidies. Similarly, our Commercial Group risk membership reflects our focus on margin stability and disciplined pricing.

Carelon continues to experience strong customer demand for its solutions. However, near-term growth will be moderated by lower health plan membership. The guidance provided today reflects the impact of our anticipated membership headwinds as well as investments we plan to make as we scale our dispensing and home health assets. Operating cash flow was $4.3 billion for the year or approximately 0.8x GAAP net income. Cash flow in December was negatively impacted by the timing of certain Medicaid-related payments, which were subsequently received in early January.

Incorporating these items, we expect our 2026 operating cash flow to be at least $5.5 billion. Days in claims payable was 41.3 days, a decrease of 0.1 days sequentially. For 2026, we expect days in claims payable to remain in the low 40s range, consistent with our long-term target. In the fourth quarter, we repurchased 1.4 million shares for $470 million, bringing full year repurchases to $2.6 billion. Combined with dividends paid during the year, we returned $4.1 billion of capital to shareholders.

Turning to our outlook. We are establishing guidance for adjusted diluted earnings per share to be at least $25.50 in 2026. We anticipate operating revenue to decline in the low single-digit percent range in 2026, driven by a low double-digit percentage decline in risk-based membership, partly offset by higher premium yields and growth in Carelon. Our consolidated medical loss ratio is expected to be 90.2%, plus or minus 50 basis points, reflecting a prudent view of cost trend and shifting acuity in Medicaid.

Our adjusted operating expense ratio is expected to be 10.6%, plus or minus 50 basis points as we maintain operational discipline while investing to scale Carelon, embed AI-enabled and digital capabilities and simplify the member experience. Our capital deployment plans remain aligned to our long-term framework, and we plan to allocate approximately $2.3 billion towards share repurchases in 2026.

Regarding earnings seasonality, we expect to earn approximately 2/3 of our adjusted EPS in the first half of 2026 with 65% of that coming in the first quarter. Based on the actions underway this year, we are reaffirming our long-term algorithm of at least 12% adjusted earnings per share growth annually on average over time, and we expect to return to at least that level of growth in 2027 of our ending 2026 earnings baseline.

Finally, our long-term earnings growth algorithm is supported by multiple levers: robust revenue growth, operating margin expansion driven by operational execution and technology integration and our commitment to disciplined capital allocation. As our business evolves, we are recalibrating our long-term margin targets for the enterprise as well as for each segment to reflect our current portfolio and how we expect it to evolve in the future, both across and within segments.

Importantly, the revision to our health benefits target margin is reflective of the revenue mix we have today while maintaining our targets by line of business. These adjustments are intended to provide a clear and durable framework for evaluating performance, but do not change our conviction in the embedded earnings power of our diversified platform.

And with that, operator, please open the line for questions.

