Establishment Labs Holdings Inc. (ESTA) 44th Annual J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference January 14, 2026 12:45 PM EST

Company Participants

Filippo Caldini - CEO & Director
Rajbir Denhoy - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

K. Gong - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Presentation

K. Gong
JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Okay. Thanks, everyone, for being here. I'm really excited to be introducing some of the management team from Establishment Labs. We're going to be starting off with a presentation from CEO, Peter Caldini, and then Raj Denhoy, CFO, will be joining us for some Q&A afterwards.

Filippo Caldini
CEO & Director

Great. Thank you. Thank you very much. It's a great pleasure to be here, really an opportunity to share some exciting news and exciting update on Establishment Labs. We just completed a very successful 2025. And I think most importantly, we're very well positioned for strong significant growth in 2026 and beyond. So for those of you that are not as familiar with the Establishment Labs story, we are a medical technology company focused on breast aesthetics and reconstruction. We really drive innovation to improve women's health and well-being.

So we've been around for 20 years. We sold over 4.5 million devices worldwide, and we're in 90 countries. And just recently, after getting the FDA approval at the end of 2024, we've launched in the U.S., and we've had a very successful start in our first year. Some of that growth is really unprecedented what we've seen in the market in the past. But it's really our science-based innovation that is really setting the standard for breast aesthetics and reconstruction by delivering really differentiated products in the marketplace that's unmatched from a safety and a performance standpoint. We just preannounced our strong results in 2025 on Monday, grew 27% on a global basis. But more importantly, the growth in the U.S., we achieved significant revenue growth, and it's not been seen before in the market in the U.S. And I'm going to provide some more information on that.

And then also, we're not stopping there. Real growth moving forward is going to be around our minimally invasive platform. This really has an opportunity to revolutionize the category. It's by providing patients with superior outcomes. And then also what we're seeing in the marketplace. And some of this is driven by us, but it's also some of the tailwinds you're seeing from GLP-1s that's really giving an opportunity to expand the marketplace, and I'm going to share some information on that as well. But a big focus for us in 2025 is really around driving profitability. And I think we've seen a lot of great success on that. And as we grow and drive our revenue growth, we're very well positioned to drive significant profitability moving forward.

Now something about our implants. There is nothing like our implants in the market today. Every Motiva implant has 4 patented technologies, one of which is SmoothSilk, the SmoothSilk surface that enhances biocompatibility and reduces the level of inflammation as well as bacterial attachment. And when we looked at launching in the U.S. several years ago, we could have come out with a me-too product. It would have been faster, it would have been cheaper, but we really wanted to make sure we came to market and we developed a superior, better product than exists in the marketplace. So by leveraging the technologies, the 4 technologies that we have, we're able to provide implants for patients as well as surgeons that is unmatched from a safety as well as a performance standpoint.

Now this is seen with our FDA clinical study data, okay? When you look at the 5-year data point, we have less than 1% device-related complications. Now when you compare that versus some of the competitive products, same time horizon, same type of clinical studies, you'll see up to 10x greater device-related complications. So it's that product of the performance, the safety that has enabled us to have the success that we've had in a market like the U.S. So for example, what we've been able to achieve in the U.S. in terms of our revenue growth and share growth has -- is far superior than what the latest or the last entrant into the category, which is Sientra that's no longer around, that took them 10 years to achieve.

As I mentioned, we had a very successful 2025 from a revenue standpoint as well as driving profitability. We preannounced 27% growth. So we're in the revenue range of between $210.5 million and $211.5 million. Very strong fourth quarter. We had a record fourth quarter in our OUS market, but also, most importantly, strong growth in the U.S. market, $45 -- over $45 million in just the first year. So that's from a revenue standpoint, but a lot of our focus was around driving profitability, be more efficient in terms of how we manage the business. We achieved EBITDA positive in Q3. We expect that to be the same in Q4 and continue in that trajectory. But we also improved our cash balance to $75.5 million at the end of last year, end of 2025 versus -- and that's about a $5 million increase from Q3 2025.

So let's talk about the U.S. launch, been very successful. It's one of the fastest launches and probably the fastest launch in the breast aesthetics history. And one of the key drivers for that success is really we've been able to assemble a best-in-class organization over the last 18 months. And you couple the organization with the implants and the profile in terms of our performance and safety has enabled us to achieve the $45 million in just the first year. We estimate that we're exiting -- or we exited 2025 at a market share rate of approximately 20%. And we keep on driving that growth with adding additional accounts, increasing the utilization rate. So that's just the beginning.

So that's our first year, and we expect continued growth in 2026 and beyond. What's some of the drivers for the market share growth in the U.S. If you think about the breast implant category, there really hasn't been a lot of new news. It's been relatively stagnant. There hasn't been a lot of innovation. There's been limited marketing support, and we came in with new news, new innovation, but also a lot of marketing support. And we've been able to not only drive awareness for Motiva, but also for the category as a whole. For some examples of that, we had over 9.2 billion impressions in the first year. And I think it's what's very monumental and very unique in the category is patients are walking in, talking to the surgeon and asking for Motiva by name. That's unheard of in the industry.

One of the key drivers was in terms of creating that awareness, and we're the first ones to actually use celebrity endorsers, and we did a deal, a sponsorship with Meghan Trainor, which was highly successful. It not only helped drive awareness for Motiva, but it was also really starting to increase the awareness or the era of transparency. So women are starting to talk more openly about getting breast augmentation and really starting to remove the stigma attached to it. Motiva breast implants was the fastest-growing procedure in real self in 2025, so really a monumental growth. So marketing was a key driver for us in 2025, and that will continue in 2026 and beyond.

What are some of the other drivers for market share growth in the U.S. in 2026? We've talked about launching Preservé. It's our minimally invasive platform. We've rolled it out in OUS with a lot of success. We've had a number of early surgeons working with that product back in August. So it's about 50 early experienced surgeons and very positive success. And we see that the minimally invasive platform has a lot of potential, not only for us to steal share but expand the category as well. We also submitted a PMA supplement for our smaller sizes. And we believe that there's about 10% of the market that we're not currently serving that we don't have our complete matrix. So by getting that approval, we'll be able to close that gap and continue to generate additional sales. A key milestone for us is when we'll get the recon indication. We submitted the PMA supplement at the end of last year, and it's really the time line dependent on FDA. But this is a sizable opportunity for us in the U.S.

We believe once we get recon indication, we're going to generate the same type of share that we're getting in the augmentation space. Another key driver for us in the U.S., and we've talked about this previously, is continuing to expand our sales force. We're going to be adding up to 15 reps in 2026, and that continues to be around the augmentation space. Obviously, once we get the recon indication, there will be another step change in terms of supporting that side of the business. And we keep on growing accounts. We're over 1,500 right now, but it's also not only growing the accounts, it's increasing the utilization rate as the adoption curve continues to move forward.

Now a little bit about the recon indication. This is a tremendous opportunity for us. I mentioned that we submitted the PMA supplement at the end of last year. The size of the recon business in the U.S. is the same size of the augmentation from a revenue standpoint. So it really gives us an opportunity to double the market that we're currently competing in. Now we are already in over 200 locations with our Flora Tissue Expander. So once we get the indication approval, we already have a head start in terms of driving growth for the indication -- the recon indication. And so we expect the acceleration to be very quick.

Now a key driver for us moving forward in the U.S. with the minimally invasive as well as OUS is around the minimally invasive platform. Preservé will be launching in the U.S. Outside the U.S., we launched Preservé. We also have Mia. And this is really an opportunity, as I mentioned before, to not only drive growth for us, but it's an opportunity to drive share and expand the category. So this unique approach using Motiva implants and tools has the opportunity to provide superior outcome for patients. And really doing that by focusing on really reducing and maintaining as much as the breast tissue as well as the breast functionality.

So those results, you don't need general anesthesia. The recovery time is incredibly fast versus traditional augmentation, which is far more invasive and it's under 15 minutes. And the incision, which leads to a smaller scar, is certainly much more smaller. So we see this as a significant driver for our business. In 2026, it should represent over $30 million in revenue. Now a little bit about the minimally invasive, why we see this as a market expansion opportunity. We've done some market research, but we're also hearing from the early experienced surgeons in the U.S. It really targets a segment of women that is currently untapped in the category. These tend to be women that are more affluent, but there are also a lot of barriers in terms of general anesthesia, the recovery time. So this really targets those type of consumers.

In some of the market research, we've seen that 1 out of 4 patients that are exposed to Preservé are willing or interested in doing a breast augmentation and 83% of those women want to do a Preservé procedure. What we're also learning is that most patients -- almost all patients that do Preservé, what is an opportunity for us, not only for us as a business, but also the surgeons is they're willing to pay a premium. So in the U.S., with the early experience surgeons, the 50 early experience surgeons, on average, they are -- patients are spending up to 20% more than traditional augmentation, in some cases, up to 40%. What we're also hearing in terms from the early experience surgeons is that patients are actually traveling to different parts of the U.S. because it's only limited in the number of locations to do Preservé surgeries. And also, we're hearing from those surgeons that it's actually bringing in more volume and more business. So we fully expect that once we roll this out, that it has an opportunity to drive category growth for Motiva.

Now as I mentioned, we expect to do over $30 million in revenue in 2026. We already launched Preservé outside the U.S., first in Brazil, rolled that out to Europe, and we're in 29 markets, global markets. It's a key driver for our growth in 2025, and we expect that in 2026, especially in our direct markets. And we expect a formal launch in the end of Q1 2026 in the U.S. Now Mia, we continue to have very good growth in EMEA. It's much more on the premium segment. It's a transactionary approach. There is no scar on the breast. And we've doubled the number of accounts through our franchise model. We continue to see good growth as Preservé comes underneath and really expands the market as well.

Now we see a significant opportunity, leveraging the minimally invasive technology with the gluteal implants. This is a market that we believe is very underdeveloped. The current solutions are high risk and not the best outcome. So we really believe with our technology that we can leverage that, provide patients with a superior outcome, but also a safer alternative. Right now, we're doing clinical studies in Latin America. We expect that the first launch will be in 2027 in Latin America. And depending on the regulatory framework and our rollout timing, we'll be looking at rolling this out in the U.S. and Europe and Asia as well in the coming years. So a key driver for us as a business, the minimally invasive platform. We're off to a very good start in OUS markets, but that will continue in 2026 and beyond.

Now there's a number of market tailwinds out there. Everybody talks about the GLP-1s A lot of the surgeons that we're engaged with tell us that a number of women are coming in, doing and looking at breast augmentation procedures based on the impact of GLP-1s. But another key driver, and some of this is driven by us with our celebrity endorsements, a lot of the social media that we're doing is really creating an era of transparency. People celebrities are coming out talking about their -- the augmentations. People are much more public about having breast augmentations and really reducing a lot of the stigma that was really impacting the potential growth for the augmentation market. And we're also seeing a lot of mainstream media talking about breast augmentations. You have the Wall Street Journal, you have the Washington Post talking about smaller sizes, more natural outcomes.

So significant tailwinds that I think will continue to drive the market. But as I said before, a lot of this is driven by a lot of the marketing efforts that we're doing as well. Now talking about 2027 and beyond. We have a significant innovation pipeline. So it's not just about 2026. We see double-digit growth or over 25% growth in the next 2 years in 2027 and beyond. You look at the real impact that we believe that we're going to have for the breast recon indication will be in 2027, the real commercial impact. Then we talk about continuing to expand the global footprint for the minimally invasive platform.

In order to launch that in the U.S., we're going to be submitting a PMA supplement to be first half of this year. We're going to need to get the ERGO 2 approval in order to launch Mia. And then we talked about the GEM in 2027 and beyond once we start rolling that out in other geographies. But as a company, we're always going to be looking at different innovations. We're the only company in this space that focuses on innovation, and that's really the DNA of this company. And so really tremendous opportunities, really executing on what we have. There's a lot of close-in opportunities, but also in the outer years and leveraging this technology.

Now as we continue to grow, and we're very well positioned to drive incremental profitability over the next couple of years. When you look at our revenue, we're expecting to grow at least 25% over the next 2 years. But our -- if you look at our corporate infrastructure, has really already been built. So we have enough capacity from a manufacturing standpoint to do -- to supply over 50% of the global market. A lot of our corporate roles and our corporate functions are already established. So really, as we drive the revenue, it doesn't require as much investment to maintain or to support the revenue growth. As I mentioned, in this year, we broke the 70% gross margin mark. And I think that's going to continue to drive growth or continue to increase as we launch the minimally invasive platform as we continue to grow in the U.S. and also as we get the recon indication.

So significant margin expansion we expect in the coming years. And it's also a lot of our discipline in terms of how we manage the business. We've been very successful in getting to EBITDA positive. We're on track to achieve cash flow positive in 2026 by really implementing a lot of the discipline that enable us to get to this point. So in summary, as I mentioned before, 2025 was a great year for Establishment Labs, but we're really well positioned for 2026 and beyond. We are the leaders in terms of breast aesthetics and reconstruction. We're setting the standards. We continue to evolve with our innovation to drive the category. You're seeing significant growth in the U.S. We've accomplished significant share from the standpoint of our exit velocity, and we expect that to continue to grow. And then we're also going to be rolling out the minimally invasive platform, which has a tremendous opportunity for us to drive share as well as expand the market -- we are seeing the tailwinds in terms of the GLP-1s, the era of transparency, much more openness around breast augmentation. And then we have really established an infrastructure that can support our business. We expect to have very sizable profits moving forward.

So that's a summary, very exciting time in Establishment Labs. And I guess, Allen, now it's a Q&A.

