Eaton Corporation plc (ETN) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Yan Jin - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Paulo Sternadt - CEO, President & Director
Olivier Leonetti - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Andrew Obin - BofA Securities, Research Division
Andrew Kaplowitz - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Christopher Snyder - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Joseph Ritchie - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Nigel Coe - Wolfe Research, LLC
Jeffrey Sprague - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
C. Stephen Tusa - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Deane Dray - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Scott Davis - Melius Research LLC

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for standing by. Welcome to Eaton's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Results Conference Call.

[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's program is being recorded.

And now I'd like to introduce your host for today's program, Yan Jin, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Yan Jin
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Good morning. Thank you all for joining us for Eaton's third quarter 2025 earnings call. With me today are Paulo Ruiz, Chief Executive Officer; and Olivier Leonetti, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Our agenda today include opening remarks by Paulo, then he will turn it over to Olivier who will highlight our company's performance in the third quarter. As we have done on our past calls, we'll be taking questions at the end of Paulo's closing commentary.

The press release and the presentation we'll go through today have been posted on our website. This presentation includes adjusted earnings per share and other non-GAAP measures. They're reconciled in the appendix. A webcast of this call is accessible on our website and it will be available for replay.

I would like to remind you that our commentary today will include statements related to expected future results of the company and are, therefore, forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from our forecasted projections due to a wide range of risks and uncertainties as described in our earnings release and presentation.

With that, I will turn it over to Paulo.

Paulo Sternadt
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Yan, and thanks, everyone, for joining us. I'm happy to report we delivered solid results. From a demand perspective, we continue to see tremendous strength. On a rolling 12-month basis, our orders accelerated in Electrical Americas, up 7%, from up 2% in Q2. Our Electrical Americas backlog grew 20% year-over-year, hitting an all-time record.

Demand in Aerospace business remains very strong as well. We posted order growth of 11% on a rolling 12-month basis and backlog expansion of 15% year-over-year. As a result, our book-to-bill for the combined segments was 1.2 on a quarterly basis and 1.1 on a rolling 12-month basis.

As we continued to deliver robust growth in data center market, our orders accelerated 70% and our sales were up 40% versus Q3 2024. This strong demand picture gives us confidence in our ability to deliver sustained growth and add value to shareholders.

Among the Q3 highlights, our adjusted earnings per share were up 8% versus prior year, and our segment margins of 25% hit a quarterly record up 70 basis points year-over-year. We're also reaffirming our 2025 guidance.

Lastly, yesterday, we were excited to announce the agreement to acquire Boyd's Thermal business, a global leader in liquid cooling. And I will talk through this in much more detail in the following slides. Olivier and I will dive into Q3 and the full year outlook in just a minute, but first, I'd like to share more details on how we are investing and executing for growth in our operations, starting on Page 4.

So earlier this year, I laid out our bold new strategy with 3 pillars: lead, invest and execute for growth. All 3 are designed to accelerate our growth and create sustained value for shareholders. These 3 pillars also enable us to capitalize on key megatrends we've discussed for the last few years. Today, we will focus on invest and execute for growth.

The Boyd acquisition fits squarely into our strategy to invest for growth. Executing for growth involves elevating operations from good to best-in-class. It includes self-help growing the head and fixing the tail and controlling our destiny independent from end market developments. Today, I'll walk you through a few examples of what we are doing and the results we are starting to see from this strategy.

Turning to Page 5. Yesterday, we announced the acquisition of Boyd, the global leader in liquid cooling technologies for critical markets like data centers, aerospace and defense and industrial. This is a high-growth business playing a high-growth market, and we expect it to generate $1.7 billion in sales next year at an adjusted EBITDA margin of 25%. This level of sales represents significant year-over-year growth, demonstrating how the business is benefiting from strong customer demand, especially in data centers.

And the business itself has a large global presence with over 5,200 employees and 16 manufacturing locations. This global presence is critical to Boyd's success as they are able to support customers almost anywhere in the world as they build out their data center infrastructure.

Of those 5,200 employees, over 500 are engineers, which is another important part of Boyd's success. These engineers work directly with the customer teams design the next chip platforms to understand the thermal characteristics of this next generation. And then this knowledge gets translated into Boyd's own designs.

Boyd's manufacturing engineering teams are also involved in the design of the cooling systems to ensure the highest reliability and the production can be rapidly scaled to meet customer needs anywhere in the world. This deep application engineering expertise combined with world-class manufacturing and supply chain create a powerful flywheel for Boyd to always stay ahead of the competition in terms of technology, reliability and scalability.

On Slide 6, we show some market data. As we talked about previously, the chips used to power AI models and other high-performance compute applications are getting more and more powerful. If you look at the data, before the advent of GenAI, the power used in a typical rack was in the 10 to 15-kilowatt range. At this level, you can cool this chip using air cooling, which is a pretty mature technology and has been around for many years.

Now, the introduction of more and more powerful AI chips, the power in each one of those racks is just skyrocketing. Take NVIDIA for example. Its GB200 chip unveiled in 2024 uses 120 kilowatts per rack. Fast forward a year to 2025 and NVIDIA's GB300 chip now uses 180 kilowatts per rack. And it's only increasing from there. NVIDIA's Rubin chip is expected to use 600 kilowatts per rack, and its Feynman chip, 1,000 kilowatts per rack.

Now in addition to these higher power chips requiring more and more electrical equipment, which is a great thing for our business, once you get above roughly 50 kilowatts per rack, traditional air cooling is replaced by liquid cooling. The physics of these power levels require liquid-cooling the chip, otherwise performance is degraded, chips don't last as long or they just might not work at all.

So all the demand that you are seeing for GenAI chips will drive commensurate demand for liquid cooling solutions to cool those chips. The growth goes hand in hand. Market estimates vary, but we believe that the global liquid cooling market will grow around 35% annually through 2028, just tremendous growth that is supported by long-term underlying factors. And to go back to my point from the prior slide, Boyd is the global leader in liquid cooling, which is why we are so excited about this business.

With the acquisition of Boyd, Eaton's data center portfolio will now be even bigger than before, shown in more detail on Page 7. We can now provide solutions for all major power and cooling systems from the chip to the grid. This includes all of our traditional power distribution, power quality and infrastructure products in the data center gray space. And here you can see our other 2 recent acquisitions of Fibrebond, modular parts; and Resilient Power, medium-voltage solid-state transformers. And in the data center white space, we can provide everything from power distribution units, remote power panels and busway, to racks, enclosures, cable tray and, in 2026, liquid cooling.

And of course, I need to mention our software and services capabilities, which we historically have been focused on the gray space and the white space power distribution and power quality equipment only, and now we added the same service capabilities for liquid cooling, which we view as a really attractive avenue for growth. Truly an impressive portfolio of solutions for data centers.

Moving to Page 8. I already talked about how this acquisition bolsters our data center portfolio, and I also want to mention how it aligns with how our customers are thinking about the future data center architectures.

Starting from the chip out, there are really 5 main technology blocks that work outwards toward the utility grid. There is a thermal management system to handle heat loads, primarily from the chip, but also from other heat-generating assets like storage devices and power supplies. There is white space power distribution and infrastructure equipment to get that power to the racks.

There is the grid equipment to distribute, transform and condition medium-voltage AC power down to low-voltage AC and then low-voltage DC power. There is Eaton assets to connect the data center to the grid. And finally, there is software and services to monitor and manage all these power and IT assets. So with this acquisition of Boyd, Eaton now plays a leading position in each one of those technology blocks.

One reason this is important is that we can now offer our data center customers a greater share of wallet. This is important as they seek to consolidate their supply base among a smaller set of stronger, more globally capable players. And the other important reason is that customers are increasingly looking to integrate these various systems to drive increased technical performance and more rapid deployments. This is especially true in data center white space, which is exactly where Boyd plays. So overall, a really exciting acquisition for us and one that we know will allow us to continue supporting our customers today and into the future.

Now let's pivot to execute for growth, another exciting important pillar of our strategy. So on Slide 9, these are key leading indicators in Electrical Americas. This segment is clearly the head of our portfolio, and we have an execution plan to grow it even stronger and with increased margins. All leading indicators on this page are proof points of the generational growth opportunity ahead of us. They also show that our team is executing well to capture this growth.

The visibility is unprecedented. So let me walk you through what we are seeing. Over the last 2 years, the mega-project announcements have increased a staggering 185%. In the same time frame, our negotiations pipeline have increased 35%, following into rolling 12-month orders up 23% on a 2-year stack and a book-to-bill of 1.1.

For data centers specifically, the 2-year stack of rolling 12-month orders are up more than 100% and the data center book-to-bill is 1.7. Electrical Americas backlog is up 51% over the last 2 years, of which data center backlog extends over 2 years. On a 2-year stack, Electrical Americas has grown 23% organically, and we think that data centers have grown 104%.

So the demand indicators clearly support why we are so bullish for this business. Our position of strength in the Americas keeps resonating across the market. We are proud to have the broadest portfolio of electrical products in the market, to cultivate strong and trustworthy relationships and to be the partner of choice to co-design the technologies of the future together with our key customers.

Slide 10 showcases Electrical Global organic growth journey. Last year we grew 4%. This year, approximately 7%. We've talked about the focus to increase Electrical Global margins while we continue to make strong progress. Our 2025 guidance reflects year-over-year margin expansion of 100 basis points.

And let's talk about the growth rates in Electrical Global now. Our Electrical Global organic growth is accelerating, up to about 7% in our 2025 guidance from 4% last year. Our 2030 target of 6% to 9% growth for the portfolio assumes about a middle single-digit growth over the period, and we are off to a great start. We are seeing order acceleration, building strong backlog and positioned to win for years to come.

We've talked about being in the right markets, targeting fast-growing markets supported by secular mega-trends. For example, the data center growth is impacting our business globally as governments and enterprises are prioritizing data localization and resiliency, and we are partnering with our hyperscaler customers in various parts of the world. And by the way, all these data centers need power, and we are a key beneficiary of our global utility space as well. And we have a broad portfolio with breadth and capabilities leveraged across end markets.

All these enable us to win and position us to gain market share on the global front. The strategy is clear, and as you'll hear from Olivier soon, we are booking sizable orders already, which is momentum to position us for strong growth for years to come.

Now I will pass to Olivier to walk through the financials.

Olivier Leonetti
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Paulo. I'll start by providing a brief summary of Q3 results.

Organic growth for the quarter was 7%, driven by strength in Aerospace, Electrical Americas and Electrical Global, partially offset by weakness in short-cycle markets, including Vehicle and eMobility. Otherwise, organic growth would have been almost 10%. We generated quarterly revenue of $7 billion and expanded margins by 70 basis points to 25%. Adjusted EPS of $3.07 increased by 8%, which is at the high end of our guidance range.

Now let's move to the segment details. On Slide 12, we highlight the Electrical Americas segment. The business continues to execute at a high level and delivered another record quarter on operating profit, and Q3 record margins. Organic sales growth of 9% was driven primarily by strength in data centers, up about 40%. Operating margin of 30.3% was up 20 basis points versus prior year, benefiting from higher sales and increased operational efficiencies.

Orders accelerated to up 7% on a trailing 12-month basis, from up 2%. This represents a strong acceleration with total quarterly orders up sequentially by more than 11%. We are confident that we will have an all-time record level of orders booked in 2025. Book-to-bill remained at 1.1, and our backlog grew by $2 billion or 20% to $12 billion, providing strong visibility for our organic growth outlook.

Now I'll summarize the results of our Electrical Global segment. Total growth of 10% included organic growth of 8%, a very strong performance for the quarter. We have strength in data center, residential, commercial and institutional and machine OEM. Regionally, we saw high single-digit growth across all 3 regions. Operating margin of 19.1% was up 40 basis points over prior year, driven primarily by sales growth, partially offset by higher inflation.

Orders were up 2% on a rolling 12-month basis, with mid-single-digit growth in APAC and EMEA. EMEA orders increased by more than 30%, driven by data center orders, including sizable orders in the Middle East and a large order with a hyperscaler in Scandinavia. This represents strong acceleration with quarterly orders up sequentially 15%. Backlog increased 7% from prior year, while book-to-bill remained above 1 on a rolling 12 months basis.

Before moving to our industrial businesses, I'd like to briefly recap the combined Electrical segments' performance. For Q3, we posted organic growth of 9% and segment margin of 26.6%, which was up 40 basis points over prior year. On a rolling 12-month basis, orders accelerated to up 5% and our book-to-bill ratio for our Electrical sector increased to 1.1. This represents continued acceleration with quarterly orders up sequentially by 13%. We are very excited to capture growth from the robust demand with strong margins in our overall Electrical business.

Page 14 highlights our Aerospace segment. Organic sales growth of 13% remains at the high end and resulted in Q3 record sales, with broad-based strength across all markets and particular strength in defense aftermarket. Operating margin expanded by 150 basis points to 25.9%, driven primarily by sales growth.

On a rolling 12-month basis, orders increased 11%, driven by defense OEM and aftermarket up 16% and 14%, respectively. On a 2-year stack basis, trailing 12-month orders are up 70%. This demonstrates strong momentum with quarterly orders increasing over 9% sequentially. Our book-to-bill for our Aerospace segment remains strong at 1.1 on a rolling 12-month basis, resulting in backlog increase of 15% year-over-year and 4% sequentially. Overall, Aerospace posted a solid Q3 and remains well-positioned going forward.

Moving to our Vehicle segment on Page 15. In the quarter, the business declined by 9% on an organic basis, primarily driven by weaknesses in the North America truck and light vehicle markets. Margins are down 160 basis points year-over-year, primarily driven by lower sales and higher inflation.

On Page 16, we show results for our eMobility business. Revenue decreased 19% from 20% lower organic, partially offset by 1% favorable FX. Operating loss was $9 million in the quarter.

Now I'll pass it back to Paulo to go over the remainder of the presentation.

Paulo Sternadt
CEO, President & Director

Thanks, Olivier. Here on Page 17 is our updated guidance for the year for organic growth and operating margins. We are reaffirming our growth guidance range of 8.5% to 9.5%. We'll likely end up at the low end of this range in total, primarily due to market dynamics in our Vehicle and eMobility businesses. We are also reaffirming our margin guidance of 24.1% to 24.5%, with minor revisions between Aerospace and eMobility.

Moving to Page 18, here's the outlook for Q4 and our updated guidance for the year. For the upcoming quarter, we see EPS of $3.23 to $3.43, representing 18% year-over-year growth. We see organic growth at 10% to 12%, which is a reacceleration of growth for the company. And for the year, we are reaffirming our adjusted EPS guidance at $11.97 to $12.17, which includes our near-term investments to position us for sustained long-term growth. And this represents 12% growth in earnings per share at the midpoint, which I promised you in March.

Shifting our perspective ahead to 2026 on Page 19, we provide our view of end market growth assumptions for the year. All in, this equates to about 7% market growth rate and, with some outgrowth, is consistent with our 2030 organic growth CAGR of 6% to 9%.

I won't go line by line here, but this chart shows that we anticipate growth across our end markets with attractive growth for over 70% of our portfolio. In particular, the data center, distributed IT and electrical vehicle markets are expected to be the strongest, up double digits. We also expect solid growth in the utility end market along with both commercial aerospace and defense. In summary, we continue to see many paths to our sustained growth, and we are confident in our end market positioning to deliver another differentiated year in 2026 of growth and strong shareholder returns.

I will close with a quick summary on Page 20. We had a strong quarter, Q3 record revenue and an all-time record on segment profit and margins. We are seeing unprecedented demand reflected in continued order acceleration and growing backlogs. Our strategy to lead, invest and execute for growth is positioning us to capture generational demand and deliver lasting value for our shareholders.

We look forward to welcoming and integrating Boyd into our business and satisfying our customers with a complete solution offering. Bottom line, we have confidence in our guidance to close out the remainder of the year, and we are well-positioned as we go into 2026 and beyond. And we remain confident that our brightest days are yet to come.

And with that, we are happy to take your questions.

Yan Jin
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, Paulo. [Operator Instructions] With that, I will turn it over to the operator to give you guys the instruction.