Freeport-McMoRan Inc. (FCX) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

David Joint - Vice President of Investor Relations
Richard Adkerson
Kathleen Quirk - CEO, President & Director
Maree Robertson - Executive VP & CFO
Cory Stevens - President & COO of Freeport Americas
Mark Johnson - President & COO of Freeport-McMoRan Indonesia

Conference Call Participants

Carlos de Alba - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Katja Jancic - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Alexander Hacking - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Bob Brackett - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Lawson Winder - BofA Securities, Research Division
William Peterson - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Liam Fitzpatrick - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Timna Tanners - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Brian MacArthur - Raymond James Ltd., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Freeport-McMoRan Fourth Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. David Joint, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

David Joint
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to the Freeport conference call. Earlier this morning, FCX reported its fourth quarter and full year 2025 operating and financial results. A copy of today's press release with supplemental schedules and slides are available on our website fcx.com. Today's conference call is being broadcast live on the Internet. Anyone may listen to the conference call by accessing the webcast link on our home page. In addition to analysts and investors, the financial press has been invited to listen to today's call. A replay of the webcast will be available on our website later today.

Before we begin our comments, we'd like to remind everyone that today's press release and certain of our comments on the call include non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially. Please refer to the cautionary language included in our press release and slides and to the risk factors described in our SEC filings, all of which are available on our website.

Also on the call with me today are Richard Adkerson, Chairman of the Board; Kathleen Quirk, President and Chief Executive Officer; Maree Robertson, Executive Vice President and CFO; and other members of our management team. Richard will make some opening remarks, Kathleen will review our slide materials and then we'll open up the call for questions. Richard?

Richard Adkerson

Thanks, David. I thank each of you for joining our call today. We are pleased to report positive results for our fourth quarter. 2025 was a truly eventful year. Recent copper prices have been strong in the face of uncertainties from global trade, tariffs and geopolitical conflicts. The future for copper remains bright. Kathleen will report on the notable progress we have achieved during the fourth quarter following the September mud flow event at PTFI. It is impressive and provides our organization confidence about our future.

PTFI has a well-designed plan to recover. Now we must execute and we will. Our long-term strategy commitment for Freeport to be foremost in copper remains intact. With our high-quality assets, our strong financial position and our highly motivated, confident global team, I'm personally enthusiastic and confident about Freeport's ability to create significant value for our shareholders and all of our stakeholders. Kathleen?

Kathleen Quirk
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, Richard, and I'm going to be referring to our slide materials. We're very pleased to be here today to report on our fourth quarter results, review our 2025 performance and update you on our initiatives, projects and outlook for the future.

Starting with Slide 3 and looking back on our performance in 2025. Our team demonstrated resilience in overcoming challenges and achieved meaningful progress on several initiatives to support a strong foundation and position the company for a positive long-term future, centered on value creation. As we look ahead, we're strongly positioned as an experienced global leader with compelling opportunities to enhance values through our ongoing operational initiatives and future prospects for substantial cash flow generation, which support investments in profitable growth and returns to shareholders.

We show our annual information on this slide on Slide 3, on copper sales, unit costs and financial metrics for the year 2025. We finished the year strong with copper sales and net unit cash costs slightly better than our adjusted guidance for the year. Despite the Grasberg incident, which impacted annual copper volumes by approximately 10% compared to our plan going into 2025, our consolidated unit net cash cost for the year of $1.65 per pound were within 3% of our guidance going into the year and adjusted EBITDA of nearly $10 billion for 2025 was similar to 2024 levels. From a big picture standpoint, the results demonstrate the benefits of our diversified portfolio of copper assets. It's clearly evident in our strong fourth quarter financial results the strength of our Americas business in this environment.

I'm going to turn to our focus areas for 2026 where we summarize on Slide 4 our priorities. The first is execution. This is a hallmark of the Freeport culture. We're committed to maintaining Freeport's long track record for successful execution, carefully planning our work and bringing relentless focus and energy on achieving our plans. The Grasberg incident was humbling but our team has risen to the challenge and is dedicated to safely and sustainably restoring our operations as we go through 2026. Across the business, we're sharply focused on delivering our planned volumes, meeting our cost targets, executing capital projects safely and efficiently and are maintaining discipline each day on the underlying metrics which drive our results, managing risk, overcoming unforeseen challenges and staying on top of what matters, both for the short term and the long term.

A second key focus area is crystallizing value in our leach opportunity. This is a meaningful value driver for our business, given the opportunity for near-term low-cost growth. The work we have done in recent years position us to scale production in the coming years and we're targeting a 40% increase in 2026 from this initiative on our path to achieving 800 million pounds per annum.

Third, we're adopting innovation, automation and new technologies to drive enhancements to reliability, efficiencies and overall operational performance. These initiatives show promise for significant value as we work to reduce costs, enhance growth and profitability of our U.S. business. We have a robust profile of organic growth options, and we'll continue to advance these initiatives during the year. We've got 3 projects, major projects in the Americas that provide optionality for future growth. And as we go forward, our team is focused on opportunities to increase margins and cash flows through greater efficiencies and disciplined investments in long-term growth.

Turning to the markets on Slide 5. Prices on the LME during 2025 traded in a broad range, between $3.87 per pound and $5.68 per pound, averaging $4.51 per pound for the year. On the U.S. COMEX exchange, average prices for the year were slightly higher, although the differential is not significant year-to-date in 2026. Prices have risen significantly in recent months, with current LME prices approximately 30% higher than the 2025 average.

During 2025, copper prices largely track macro sentiment, market-weighed U.S. dollar weakness, expected U.S. rate cuts, accelerating AI and technology-driven demand and Chinese stimulus against mixed economic data, uncertainty around tariff and trade policy, economic pressures in China and elevated geopolitical risk. At a micro level, demand benefited from secular demand trends associated with electrification and AI data centers and offset the impact of weakness in private construction and more cyclical sectors.

Supply disruptions in copper and regional trade distortions, which drove significant material to the U.S. also impacted copper markets during 2025. In the U.S., our customers are reporting that data center demand represents the most significant source of growth for power cable and building wire. This growing sector is offsetting weakness in traditional demand sectors in residential construction and autos. Demand from China continues to be supported by significant investments in the electrical grid and continued growth in China's production of electric vehicles. China's demand for copper continued to grow during 2025.

As you'll see in this chart, global inventories of copper on exchanges have risen in recent months, during a period of sharp increases in copper prices. Most analysts are projecting that the market will be tightly balanced during 2026 with some projecting deficits and other small surpluses. Copper superior conductivity make it the metal when it comes to electrification. Massive investment in the power grid, renewable generation, technology infrastructure, and transportation are driving increased demand for copper and forecasts call for above-trend growth in demand for the foreseeable future. As we review the fundamentals, we continue to expect the market will require additional copper supplies to meet growing demand. And at Freeport, we're well positioned to supply copper reliably and responsibly to a growing market.

You've probably seen by now the recent report from S&P Global, which was released earlier this month. On Slide 6 and 7, we published some highlights of the report. It was a new study, which evaluated the role of copper in the age of artificial intelligence, and we've summarized key findings, which indicate that massive growth in demand for electricity will translate into above-trend growth in copper demand pointing to a doubling of copper demand through 2040. The study projects a long-term annual growth rate and demand of 2.9% over this period, including significant growth in new secular demand drivers. The report is available from S&P Global, and we encourage everyone to take a look at it.

Moving to our fourth quarter results on Slide 8. We've got a summary of the quarter. Our operating performance during the fourth quarter was favorable to our estimates going into the period. Production was in line with expectations and sales were better than expected principally because of timing of shipments in Indonesia. As indicated in our November update, we completed investigations on the Grasberg incident and restarted the Deep MLZ and Big Gossan mines during the fourth quarter. Since our November report, we've continued to make steady progress to prepare the Grasberg Block Cave to resume operations and we're on track for a second quarter 2026 start-up. With strength in copper prices during the quarter, the performance of our U.S. business was quite strong with operating income 3.5x the level of the 2024 fourth quarter. This demonstrates the positive leverage of pricing at these operations with strong conversion to the bottom line.

Moving to the operating statistics on Slide 9, we summarized the highlights by geographic region. Starting in the U.S., production was up 5% versus both the year ago fourth quarter and for the year 2025 versus 2024. This is notable given the declines that we faced in the prior 2 years. And despite the low grades, we've been working to increase volumes in the U.S. through efficiency gains and through our leach recovery initiatives. We're targeting an 8% increase in volumes in the U.S. for 2026 in part related to adding scale in our innovative leach project.

We're making excellent progress with our initiatives to improve efficiencies and cost performance. We're continuing to integrate new technologies to realize better performance in our basic mining functions, and we're successful in 2025 in converting our haul truck fleet at our Bagdad mine to autonomous. We're continuing to refine the autonomous process but are optimistic that the value proposition of this technology can be applied on a broader scale.

In South America, performance was in line with expectations. The Cerro Verde team will highlight finish strong to deliver another solid year. Our copper sales for South America for the year 2025 totaled 1.1 billion pounds and the expectations is that we'll have a similar amount of sales from South America during 2026. Our unit net cash costs in South America for the fourth quarter averaged $2.57 per pound and we expect a similar level in 2026. We're expecting stable production levels at Cerro Verde and some growth at El Abra, our project in Chile in partnership with CODELCO over the next couple of years.

There's a lot of activity at El Abra currently with a leach pad extension and plans to conduct testing during 2026 of heated stockpile injections to enhance leach recoveries. We're also finalizing the preparation of an environmental impact statement for a major expansion at El Abra, which we plan to submit in the first half of this year. With our progress, you'll see we added reserves for the El Abra expansion of over 17 billion pounds of copper, and we're excited about this project as we progress through the regulatory process.

In Indonesia, in line with our plans, we operated on a limited basis from the Deep MLZ and Big Gossan mines during the fourth quarter and continued our preparation for the planned restart of the Grasberg Block Cave. Sales for the fourth quarter exceeded production by about 60 million pounds of copper, which was a timing variance. Operations at 1 of 2 smelters resumed late in the year and the new smelter remains in standby status with an expected restart later this year. We've made great progress to restore operations at the Grasberg Block Cave, which we'll cover in more detail on the next 2 slides.

On Slide 10, we provide a refresher from our November call, the various work streams required to safely restart operations at the Grasberg Block Cave. As a reminder, the Grasberg Block Cave represents the most significant contributor in the district. We provided a schematic on the right showing the various production blocks within the Grasberg Block Cave. And as a reminder, the incident occurred in Production Block 1C. Our plan incorporates a phased restart and ramp-up of the Grasberg Block Cave beginning in the second quarter, initially in Production Blocks 2 and 3, followed by Production Block 1S in middle of 2027 and finally, Production 1C at the end of 2027.

With the successful ramp-up of Production Blocks 2 and 3 beginning in the second quarter, we expect to have 85% of production restored in the district in the second half of this year. The milestones for restarting Production Blocks 2 and 3 include cleanup of the mud in the tunnels, principally in the service area, the installation of cement plugs to isolate the panels in Production Block IC and to ensure there's no connection to the surface and replacement of the electrical and communication systems damaged in the incident.

For production Block 1S the repairs are expected to extend beyond the restart of PB 2 and PB 3, principally to install additional protective barriers and replace the number of damaged chutes used to transport ore to the haulage level. We continue to target a restart of PB 1, both PB 1S and PB 1C during 2027. And we're going to continue to progress the reopening plan as we monitor progress with various mitigation initiatives for the Production Block 1. We're incorporating recommendations from the investigation to enhance our risk management mitigation and the incident highlighted the need for more dynamic case management plans tailored for various conditions and for more robust controls and operational procedures to address areas subject to risks from an external mud rush. In addition, we're continuing to adopt new innovative approaches to mud drainage solutions for the pit bottom. We've got those described on Slide 31 and to adopt emerging technology for imaging to improve cave shape monitoring and those are all being advanced.

We've got a scorecard on Slide 11. We're very pleased with the progress that we've made to date. We're tracking the plan. Mud removals in the areas required to commence the start-up of PB 2 and PB 3 is substantially complete and the barriers being installed to isolate Production Block 1 are advanced and expected to be completed in the first quarter. With the installation of the protective plugs, infrastructure repairs are expected to move to completion by quarter end, positioning the restart to commence in the second quarter. We remain confident in reestablishing large-scale production and in our ability to safely operate this great ore body over the long term. The progress to date continues to derisk the plan and in executing the restart, our team will be vigilant in prioritizing safety above all else.

We're pleased to report on our reserve at year-end 2025. Those are reported on Slide 12. As you know, at Freeport, we benefit from a significant reserve and resource position, where we have established operations and successful track records. A summary of the reserves are indicated here where we continue to maintain long reserve lives and substantial resources to support long-term production and our growth opportunities. The reserve additions that we're reporting in 2025 are substantially in excess of our production, and those principally relate to the addition of over 17 billion pounds of copper for the El Abra project, which was previously considered a mineral resource.

The reserves in Indonesia are included and they're reported through 2041. And we note that an extension is in progress, and that would enable the portion of the reported resource to be included in our longer-term reserve plans. In addition to the reserves, we have significant incremental mineral resources with over half located in the United States. We'll point out the large resource in the Safford/Lone Star district as we continue to advance studies to evaluate a major opportunity there.

Slide 13, we wanted to update you on our growth plans. It's clear additional copper supplies will be required to support energy infrastructure, new technologies and more advanced societies. Our projects at Freeport would provide significant copper, which can be developed from our known resources in jurisdictions where we have an established history and experience. Our projects in Indonesia also benefit from the high gold content that goes along with the copper. Because these projects are brownfield in nature, we benefit from leveraging existing infrastructure and experienced workforce and relationships with key stakeholders to move more quickly with less risk than greenfield projects.

We're now entering a period of growth in our Americas business with near- and medium-term opportunities to scale our leach initiatives and double our production at our Bagdad mine. We have longer-term growth in the Safford/Lone Star district and an exciting project, as we mentioned at El Abra in Chile. In approaching these projects, we're using innovative approaches to improve efficiencies, reduce costs and capital intensity and work to shorten lead times for our projects.

Our high potential, low-cost innovative leach initiative is a great example of doing this. We've talked about what we've done to date. We've produced over 200 million pounds from this initiative in 2025. We're targeting 300 million pounds in 2026. Some of the progress and milestones that we reached in 2025 was the initiation of deployment in the field of our first internally generated additive at Morenci. We've got encouraging results there, and we're planning to adopt it on a broader scale during 2026. We're continuing to be very encouraged by lab testing of additional additives, and those show even greater promise. We have projects in 2026 in our pipeline for the leach project to test injection of heated solutions in our stockpiles, which together with the additives have potential for significant recovery gains.

2026, we're looking at as a pivotal year for us in this initiative as we work to scale to 400 million pounds in 2027 and to 800 million pounds by 2030. Our expansion opportunity at Bagdad is advancing toward an investment decision. During the first half of the year, we're planning to advance engineering, retest the economics and work with our vendors to secure fixed pricing on major components. We're also continuing to advance our work on tailings infrastructure to further enhance the optionality on timing. We're continuing our studies on Safford/Lone Star district, as we mentioned, to evaluate optimal development options. And then at El Abra, we have a great opportunity with our partner CODELCO to develop a large-scale expansion. Our total reserves at El Abra are getting close to the large position we have at Cerro Verde. This is a terrific opportunity for us, and we're looking forward to working with regulators as we commence the permitting process this year. Progress at Kucing Liar is also continuing in Indonesia, and this will allow us to sustain a low-cost, long-term production profile in the Grasberg district.

Before we get into our forecast for sales guidance and cost and cash flow, we want to highlight Freeport on Slide 14 as America's Copper Champion. Freeport is an important American copper producer and is by far the largest contributor to the U.S. copper market with an established and successful franchise dating back to the late 1800s. Our operations in the U.S. are fully integrated with smelting and refining facilities and leach processing that efficiently produce refined cathode. Freeport supplies 70% of the refined copper produced in the U.S. And as we pointed out, a large portion of our reserves, resources and future growth are in the U.S. We're driving a series of initiatives to enhance our U.S. business through innovation, automation and investment in expanded facilities. These initiatives are designed to add production at a low incremental cost and improve profitability and resiliency of our U.S. business.

In an industry where development lead times can span more than a decade, our business in the U.S. is strongly positioned with a potential for an over 50% increase in copper production as we go through the next 4 to 5 years. We're very excited about these opportunities, and they -- most of all, they represent a significant value driver for Freeport. Maree is going to cover our outlook and then we'll circle back and open up the call for questions. Maree?

Maree Robertson
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Kathleen. If you turn to Slide 15, we show our 3-year outlook for sales volumes of copper, gold and molybdenum. The plans are very similar to our last update in November. Our 2026 copper sales have been adjusted slightly to address the timing of sales between 2025 and 2026. As indicated, we expect growing volumes in 2027 and 2028 as we reach full recovery at Grasberg. We provide quarterly estimates on Page 27 of the reference materials. We expect to be at a quarterly run rate of approximately 1 billion pounds per quarter in the second half of 2026. The unit net cash costs are expected to average $1.75 per pound for 2026 assuming byproduct credits priced at $4,000 per ounce of gold and $20 per pound for molybdenum. With growing volumes, our first half costs are expected to be above the average for the year, with second half costs approximating $1.25 per pound, which is more reflective of a normalized run rate.

Flipping to Slide 16, putting together our projected volumes and cost estimates, we show modeled results on Slide 16 for EBITDA and cash flow at various copper prices ranging from $4 to $6 per pound of copper. These are modeled results using the average of 2027 and 2028 with current volume and cost estimates and holding gold flat at $4,000 per ounce and moly flat at $20 per pound. Annual EBITDA would range from approximately $11 billion per annum at $4 per pound copper to over $19 billion per annum at $6 copper with operating cash flows ranging from approximately $8 billion per year at $4 to over $14 billion per year at $6 copper. The dotted line shows the 2026 estimates, which reflects the phased ramp-up at Grasberg. These amounts exclude potential recovery under our property and business interruption insurance coverage.

The policy provides coverage for up to $700 million for underground losses. We show sensitivities to various commodities on the rise. You will note, we are highly leveraged to copper prices with each $0.10 per pound change equating to approximately $415 million in annual EBITDA in the 2027-2028 periods. We'll also benefit from improving gold prices with each $100 per ounce change in price approximating $120 million in annual EBITDA. With our long-lived reserves and large-scale production, we are well positioned to generate substantial cash flow to fund future organic growth and cash returns under our performance-based payout framework.

Slide 17 shows our current forecast for capital expenditures in 2026 and 2027. Capital expenditures for 2025 totaled $3.9 billion, $0.5 billion below our plan going into 2025 and are expected to approximate $4.3 billion to $4.5 billion in 2026 and 2027. We have added $150 million in capital in 2026 to advance engineering and early works at Bagdad to enhance optionality as we work towards an investment decision targeted in the second half of the year. The discretionary projects approximated $1.4 billion in 2025 and are expected to approximate $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion per year in 2026 and 2027. With roughly 50% related to the Kucing Liar development and the LNG project at Grasberg. The balance includes acceleration of tailings and other infrastructure to support the Bagdad expansion; the Atlantic Copper CirCular project, which is expected to be completed during 2026 and capitalized interest.

The discretionary category reflects the capital investments we are making in new projects that under our financial policy are funded with the 50% of available cash that is not distributed. These projects are value-enhancing initiatives detailed on Slide 37 in our reference material. We continue to carefully manage capital expenditure and we'll continue to deploy capital strategically to projects with the best return and risk-reward profiles.

And finally, on Slide 18, we reiterate the financial policy priorities centered on a strong balance sheet, cash returns to shareholders and investments in value-enhancing growth projects. Our balance sheet is solid with investment-grade ratings, solid credit metrics and flexibility within our debt targets to execute on our projects. We have no significant debt maturities during 2026 and have substantial flexibility for funding the 2027 maturities. We have distributed $5.7 billion to shareholders through dividends and share purchases and have an attractive future long-term portfolio that will enable us to continue to build long-term value for shareholders. Our global team is focused on driving value in our business, committed to strong execution of our plans, providing cash to invest in profitable growth and return cash to shareholders. Thank you for your attention. We'll now take your questions.

