F5, Inc. (FFIV) Q1 2026 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Suzanne DuLong - Vice President of Investor Relations
François Locoh-Donou - President, CEO & Director
Cooper Werner - Executive VP & Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Matthew Hedberg - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Timothy Long - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
George Notter - Wolfe Research, LLC
Simon Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Michael Ng - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Ryan Koontz - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Tomer Zilberman - BofA Securities, Research Division
Meta Marshall - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
James Fish - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and welcome to the F5 Inc. First Quarter Fiscal 2026 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Also, today's conference is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, please disconnect at this time.

And I'll now turn the conference over to Ms. Suzanne DuLong. Thank you, ma'am. You may begin.

Suzanne DuLong
Vice President of Investor Relations

Hello, and welcome. I'm Suzanne DuLong, F5's Vice President of Investor Relations. We are here to discuss our first quarter fiscal year 2026 financial results. Francois Locoh-Donou, F5's President and CEO; and Cooper Werner, F5's Executive Vice President and CFO, will be making prepared remarks on today's call. Other members of the F5 executive team are also here to answer questions during the Q&A session.

Today's press release is available on our website at f5.com. An archived version of today's audio will be available through April 27, 2026. We will post the slide deck accompanying today's webcast to our IR site following this call. To access the replay of today's webcast by phone, dial (877) 660-6853 or (201) 612-7415 and use meeting ID 13757533. The telephonic replay will be available through midnight Pacific Time, January 28, 2026. For additional information or follow-up questions, please reach out to me directly at s.dulong@f5.com.

Our discussion today will contain forward-looking statements, which include words such as believe, anticipate, expect and target. These forward-looking statements involve uncertainties and risks that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. We have summarized factors that may affect our results in the press release announcing our financial results and in detail in our SEC filings.

In addition, we will reference non-GAAP metrics during today's discussion. Please see our full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation in today's press release and in the appendix of our earnings slide deck. Please note that F5 has no duty to update any information presented in this call.

I will now turn the call over to Francois.

François Locoh-Donou
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Suzanne, and hello, everyone. We are very pleased to report strong Q1 results with 7% revenue growth driven by 11% product revenue growth, our sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit product growth. This includes a robust 37% systems revenue growth in the quarter. Our growth continues to be fueled by durable demand drivers, including hybrid multi-cloud adoption, scaling AI investment and the demand for converged platforms.

Our EMEA region delivered a particularly strong quarter, and we are seeing momentum from emerging trends, which may prove durable. Regulations and mandates for resiliency and digital sovereignty are prompting customers to accelerate hybrid multi-cloud deployments driving increased demand for F5 solutions.

We are especially pleased with our Q1 results, given the uncertainty following the security incident at the start of the quarter. Our global sales and support teams mobilized rapidly, enabling customers to take action and get back to business quickly. They managed more than 9,000 additional support cases and earned positive customer feedback on our response efforts. As a result, we experienced minimal demand disruption in Q1.

In addition, unexpected positive outcomes emerged, including customers gaining a deeper understanding and appreciation of F5's critical role in their infrastructure and opportunities to strengthen relationships, including deeper engagement with CISOs. We remain focused on protecting customers and earning their trust, recognizing the responsibilities that come with our critical role. We are hyper focused on 3 areas: further investing in the security of our operations including security automation, enhancing the security of our products and development environments, and supporting the broader security community by sharing our learnings and innovations such as introducing endpoint detection and response or EDR capabilities to perimeter devices.

As we look ahead, we see 3 forces reshaping customer infrastructure decisions and they are all accelerating simultaneously. The first is hybrid multicloud. Workloads now span on-premises, private cloud and multiple public clouds. Customers want flexibility without lock-in and hybrid multicloud has become the dominant operating model as a result.

The second is enterprise AI. Customers are shifting from general purpose systems to AI-centric data centers. These environments require far higher levels of data movement and compute and these new requirements are putting real pressure on networking, storage and application delivery layers. Finally, organizations are replacing fragmented point products with converged platforms, because complexity now directly impacts performance, uptime and risk.

Consolidation is no longer simply a cost exercise. It is how customers simplify operations and improve resilience. I will double-click on the first trend. Hybrid multicloud adoption has been driven by enterprises' need for flexibility, cost efficiency, vendor lock-in prevention and data gravity. Today, drivers like regulations, including MIS 2, GDPR and Dora, are accelerating hybrid multicloud adoption by imposing greater resilience and digital sovereignty requirements especially outside the U.S.

Organizations are also modernizing infrastructures to enhance security, performance and efficiency. They are repatriating sensitive workloads to ensure compliance and deploying advanced ADC and API security solutions. These trends underscore why hybrid multicloud is the leading operating model. F5 is purpose built to lead in this space. Our unmatched ability to provide complete delivery and security for every app, deployable anywhere and in any form factor sets us apart. With a platform architected for hybrid multicloud, it is no surprise that customers are turning to F5 to secure and scale their environments.

Let me share a few examples of some hybrid multicloud wins from Q1. F5 is powering the hybrid multicloud strategy for a regional banking leader. The customer needed more capacity and a modern application infrastructure for digital banking services and AI-based application development. F5 is building an AI-ready infrastructure with enhanced security using BIG-IP for automated and simplified operations, NGINX for cloud-native performance and Distributed Cloud Services for bot defense and DDoS mitigation.

Second, the media and Internet provider selected F5 to standardize application delivery across its on-premises and cloud environments. With F5, the customer uses the same ingress and security approach everywhere its applications and AI services run, ensuring predictable performance, security and user experience. Teams can deploy or expand applications across environments without changing operational practices. This provides a reliable foundation for scaling AI and modern applications in a hybrid multicloud environment.

Finally, a large operator of veterinary clinics is leveraging F5 to strengthen the resilience of its hybrid multicloud architecture. The customer needed to modernize their infrastructure and reduce risks tied to cloud concentration and vendor lock-in. F5 is delivering consistent networking and security functions and eliminating cloud-native dependencies. With F5, the customer is creating a durable foundation for future API and AI use cases.

Now let us look more closely at AI. AI-related investment is scaling as enterprises prepare for increased network capacity and services to support AI workloads, agentic AI and inferencing demand. The resulting AI-related demand is fueling growth across our portfolio. AI is fundamentally transforming application behavior, and we are seeing 3 consistent patterns driving demand for F5 solutions. In AI data delivery, multimodal data growth is pushing terabit-scale ingestion with idle GPUs costing real money, customers need sustained end-to-end high throughput data pipelines across network, storage and application delivery. BIG-IP solves the AI training and inference throughput bottlenecks traditional infrastructure cannot handle.

In AI runtime security, customers are moving quickly on generative AI but security and compliance often become bottlenecks to deployment and ROI. Agentic systems raised the stakes by accessing and acting on sensitive data, driving demand for stronger runtime controls and guardrails. F5 safeguards AI applications, APIs and models from abuse, data leaks and attacks like prompt injection. We ensure visibility, control and trust.

With our Q4 acquisition of CalypsoAI, we enhanced our runtime security offerings with real-time threat defense, red teaming models and robust guardrails. We are preventing prompt injections and ensuring models act as intended, even under attack.

In AI factory load balancing, as AI deployment scale intelligent traffic distribution across models, clusters and GPUs is critical, creating new demand for load balancing across and within the AI factory. F5 optimizes traffic and GPU utilization, increasing token throughput, reducing time to first token and lowering per token costs. These trends highlight a clear reality. AI is accelerating demand for application delivery and security areas where F5 excels. In Q1, we added nearly as many AI customers as we did in all of FY '25. This growing demand is a testament to our Layer 7 expertise and decades of experience connecting applications and users, key differentiators in a rapidly evolving market.

I will highlight a few of our AI wins from the quarter. In an AI data delivery use case, one of the largest global technology OEMs is expanding its BIG-IP infrastructure to support a new high-bandwidth AI data ingestion use case. The customer is repatriating large amounts of IoT data from the cloud to enable AI and analytics workloads. F5 is modernizing their S3 data delivery tier with BIG-IP for ultra-high performance. We are also accelerating their internal large language model development powering large-scale data ingestion into AI storage and pipelines.

In AI runtime security, a global financial services leader is leveraging F5 to integrate generative AI into its AI trust framework. F5 is ensuring security, regulatory compliance and continuous access controls at scale. F5's AI Guardrails with programmable risk-based controls reinforced with continuous F5 AI Red Team testing is enhancing trust, resilience and regulatory readiness across every AI interaction.

F5's approach seamlessly integrates with the customer's existing identity, access management and governance systems and is providing advanced protection against emerging threats, while delivering low latency performance. And finally, in an AI factory load balancing win with a major energy and chemicals company, our team successfully leveraged a tech refresh into an expanded AI use case. The customer is shifting from public AI consumption to hosting private AI models and needed a solution to reduce latency and prevent timeouts.

F5 is ensuring faster, more reliable AI responses with hardware level handling of Layer 4 traffic and SSL processing significantly improving time to first token. All of these examples highlight how customers are building their AI infrastructure with F5.

Let's shift gears to the third trend, converged networking and security platforms. Growing hybrid multicloud complexity has customers desperate for ways to reduce costs and improve the performance of fragmented point solutions. F5's Application Delivery and Security Platform, or ADSP is the first platform to unite high-performance traffic management with advanced application and API security across hybrid and multicloud environments.

ADSP converges security, scalability and operational efficiency. It enables customers to consolidate multiple point solutions in one unified platform, simplifying operations and reducing risk. ADSP also delivers valuable XOps capabilities for customers like policy management, analytics and automation. Let me highlight a few Q1 wins that demonstrate how customers are adopting ADSP, converging solutions and simplifying operations.

In banking, a long-standing BIG-IP customer is modernizing its infrastructure, consolidating networking, application delivery and security with F5. The customer is modernizing its digital banking applications and needed increased capacity and improved resilience to comply with central banking regulations. Today, the customer is leveraging a powerful combination of BIG-IP, NGINX and Distributed Cloud Services for traffic management, WAF and DDoS protection.

A global consumer products company standardized on a converged F5 platform to address governance and reliability concerns. By expanding its use of NGINX and refreshing its BIG-IP footprint, the customer consolidated application delivery and security controls, ensuring consistent performance. Finally, a foreign national law enforcement agency selected a converged F5 platform to support its national Open Data Initiative. The customer's disparate infrastructures struggled with ransomware threats, high false positive and limited scalability. F5's converged solution enabled the agency to consolidate load balancing, API protection, authentication and threat mitigation. And these are just a few of the examples of customers leveraging F5's converged platform to consolidate vendors, simplify operations and reduce risk.

F5 is unmatched in delivering complete application delivery and security across hybrid multicloud environments. Our vision for a unified converged platform is fueled by our commitment to customer-focused innovation, and we are continuing to invest to create even greater value for our customers.

In November, we launched F5 BIG-IP Version 21.0 scaling the core for the most demanding AI workloads. This release delivers the significant control plane enhancements required to handle the scale and complexity of modern traffic. Crucially, we have applied this performance directly to AI data delivery introducing native support for the Model Context Protocol, or MCP and S3. This ensures that BIG-IP is optimized for the high throughput storage and retrievable workloads that are critical to AI architectures.

We are also bringing our advanced API security to the data center. One of the primary challenges our customers face is the risk of shadow APIs, endpoints that are active but invisible within their private networks. We have now enabled our API discovery engines to run locally in customer environments. This means we can deliver the exact same discovery and security capabilities on premises that our customers already rely on in F5 Distributed Cloud Services. This allows customers to maintain a consistent API security posture in any environment.

In summary, our first quarter performance underscores F5's strong alignment with durable market demand drivers, including hybrid multicloud adoption, the acceleration of AI and the increasing need for converged platforms. We remain deeply committed to driving innovation and to delivering cutting-edge solutions that address our customers' rapidly evolving application delivery and security challenges.

Now I will turn the call over to Cooper, who will walk you through our Q1 results, and our outlook.

Cooper?

Cooper Werner
Executive VP & Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Francois, and hello, everyone. I will review our Q1 results before I update our outlook for FY '26 and provide our guidance for Q2. We delivered a strong Q1, growing revenue 7% to $822 million, with a mix of 50% product revenue and 50% services revenue. Demand in the quarter came from continued hybrid multicloud adoption, fueled by customers' need for flexibility and their efforts to modernize architectures. AI, regulations and the resulting need for greater resilience and data sovereignty are also emerging as hybrid multicloud accelerants. As Francois mentioned, we saw minimal demand impact from the security incident in Q1.

Product revenue totaled $410 million, increasing 11% year-over-year, while services revenue of $412 million grew 4% year-over-year. Systems revenue totaled $218 million, up 37% over Q1 FY '25, driven by strong tech refresh and capacity expansion in connection with hybrid multicloud adoption and growing AI demand. Our software revenue of $192 million was down 8% year-over-year. This met our expectations given the exceptionally strong results in Q1 '25, including a sizable 8-figure renewal we discussed last year.

Subscription-based software revenue totaled $164 million, up 1% year-on-year. Perpetual license software totaled $27 million, down year-over-year against exceptionally strong results from Q1 '25. Revenue from recurring sources contributed 69% of our Q1 revenue. Our recurring revenue consists of our subscription-based revenue and the maintenance portion of our services revenue.

Shifting to revenue distribution by region. Revenue from the Americas grew 2% year-over-year, representing 53% of total revenue. As Francois highlighted, EMEA delivered exceptional 24% growth, representing 31% of revenue, and APAC declined 1% and represent 16% of revenue.

Looking at our major verticals, enterprise customers represented 64% of Q1's product bookings. Government customers represented a strong 23% of product bookings including 8% from U.S. Federal. Finally, service providers represented 13% of Q1 product bookings.

Our continued financial discipline contributed to our strong Q1 operating results. GAAP gross margin was 81.5%. Non-GAAP gross margin was 83.8%. Our GAAP operating expenses were $456 million. Our non-GAAP operating expenses were $375 million. Our GAAP operating margin was 26.0%. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 38.2%, an improvement of 80 basis points year-over-year. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 19.2%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 19.8%. Our GAAP net income for the quarter was $180 million or $3.10 per share. Our non-GAAP net income was $259 million or $4.45 per share, reflecting 16% EPS growth from the year ago period.

I will now turn to cash flow and balance sheet metrics. We generated $159 million in cash flow from operations in Q1. CapEx was $10 million. DSO for the quarter was 54 days. Cash and investments totaled approximately $1.22 billion at quarter end. Deferred revenue was $2.1 billion, up 6% from the year ago period. In Q1, we repurchased $300 million worth of F5 shares at an average price of $249 per share. We ended the quarter with approximately 6,400 employees.

I will now speak to our fiscal year 2026 outlook. With strong close rates in Q1 and solid pipeline creation, we are raising our FY '26 outlook. We now expect FY '26 revenue growth of between 5% to 6%, up from our prior outlook of 0% to 4%. For the year, we now expect mid-single-digit software revenue growth, double-digit systems revenue growth and low single-digit services revenue growth.

We estimate FY '26 gross margin in a range of 82.5% to 83.5%. This reflects a modest reduction to our prior range, accounting for an anticipated impact to product COGS in the second half related to rising memory costs. We estimate FY '26 non-GAAP operating margin to be in a range of 34% to 35%, up from our prior range of 33.5% to 34.5%. We continue to expect our FY '26 non-GAAP effective tax rate will be in a range of 21% to 22%. And we expect FY '26 non-GAAP EPS in a range of $15.65 to $16.05, up from the prior range of $14.50 to $15.50. Finally, we continue to expect our full year share repurchase to be at least 50% of our free cash flow. Given the $300 million repurchased in Q1, we anticipate repurchase activity will be lower in the remaining quarters of FY '26.

Turning to our Q2 outlook. We expect Q2 revenue in a range of $770 million to $790 million, reflecting approximately 7% growth at the midpoint. We expect non-GAAP gross margin in the range of 82.5% to 83%. We estimate Q2 non-GAAP operating expenses of $396 million to $408 million. As a reminder, our operating margins are typically lowest in fiscal Q2 due to January payroll tax resets and expenses from our large customer event in March. We expect Q2 share-based compensation expense of approximately $70 million to $72 million. We anticipate Q2 non-GAAP EPS in the range of $3.34 to $3.46 per share.

I will now pass the call back to Francois.

François Locoh-Donou
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Cooper. In closing, I will say that F5's mission to help each other thrive and build a better digital world has never been more vital or more relevant. As we look ahead, we see our strengths aligning with the most significant secular trends reshaping the enterprise, hybrid multicloud adoption, the AI revolution and the growing demand for converged platforms. We expect these trends will provide tailwinds for continued growth in fiscal year 2026 and beyond.

Operator, please open the call to questions.

