FIGS, Inc. (FIGS) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Tom Shaw - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Catherine Spear - Co-Founder, CEO & Director
Sarah Oughtred - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Robert Drbul - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Rakesh Patel - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Brooke Roach - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Matt Koranda - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Brian Nagel - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Dana Telsey - Telsey Advisory Group LLC
Ashley Owens - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
John Kernan - TD Cowen, Research Division
Angus Kelleher-Ferguson - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon. Thank you for attending the FIGS Third Quarter Fiscal 2025 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Matt, and I'll be the moderator for today's call. I'd now like to pass the conference over to our host, Tom Shaw, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Tom, please go ahead.

Tom Shaw
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us to discuss FIGS Third Quarter 2025 results, which we released this afternoon and can be found in our earnings press release and in the shareholder presentation posted to our Investor Relations website at ir.wearfigs.com.

Presenting on today's call are Trina Spear, our Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer; and Sarah Oughtred, our Chief Financial Officer. As a reminder, remarks on this call that do not concern past events are forward-looking statements. These may include predictions, expectations or estimates, including about future financial performance, market opportunity or business plans.

Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially. These and other risks are discussed in our SEC filings, including in the 10-Q we filed today. Do not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of today and which we undertake no obligation to update.

Finally, we will discuss certain non-GAAP metrics and key performance indicators, which we believe are useful supplemental measures for understanding our business. Definitions and reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the shareholder presentation we issued today.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Trina.

Catherine Spear
Co-Founder, CEO & Director

Thanks, Tom, and good afternoon, everyone. Our third quarter results are built on the momentum generated during the first half of the year, delivering our highest quarterly year-over-year revenue growth over the past 2 years, supported by strong performance across the board.

Net revenues were up 8% for the quarter, well ahead of our plan. Importantly, this success was pronounced across the core parts of our business, scrubwear, the U.S. and our business as usual selling days. At the same time, we drove the core while executing our plan to pull back on promotions. We believe these positive trends within our foundation are a great sign of our brand health and support the sustainable growth story we see ahead.

We also executed well across the P&L in Q3. Gross margin remained healthy, approaching 70% despite the growing impact of tariff headwinds. Substantial SG&A leverage reflected both the lapping of outsized expenses last year, but more importantly, the success of our ongoing efficiency and tariff mitigation efforts. Overall, this execution supported an impressive 900 basis point improvement in our adjusted EBITDA margin to 12.4% for the period.

As we look ahead, we are seeing this positive momentum carry over to the start of Q4, and we are meaningfully increasing our outlook as a result. We now expect Q4 to be our strongest net revenue growth of the year, driving our full-year estimate to approximately 7% growth. We also have increased our adjusted EBITDA margin expectation above the high end of our original outlook and back to low double-digit levels.

This reflects the great progress we have made during the year despite the onset of tariff headwinds. Overall, we are executing exceptionally well against our expectations and driving better consistency. I'm so proud of our team's collective effort as we look to deliver to all of our stakeholders, most importantly, our healthcare professionals.

Reflecting on our year-to-date results, we have seen an outstanding response to our brand and wanted to spend some time on this call walking through some of the dynamics we see contributing to our top line outperformance. At the highest level, it really comes down to our success in delivering a great product assortment and impactful connections.

Starting with our product strategy, we are excited about the direction we are headed in and how we are more effectively delivering our portfolio to healthcare professionals. We see 4 interrelated areas of focus that are both paying dividends today and setting us up for success in the future. These include improved function and fit, expanded head-to-toe solutions, strategic inventory investments and stronger calendar alignment. We recognize the importance of function and fit. These are already hallmarks of our brand, but areas to continually improve in to address the evolving needs of healthcare professionals.

From a functional standpoint, we are delivering impactful and relevant new silhouettes, which are resonating with new and existing customers. This focus has been key in driving our core while also demonstrating success in elevating our assortment. Function also informs fabric leadership, where our category-defining FIONx fabrication remains the centerpiece of our brand. However, we know that there are opportunities to address the full range of activities that healthcare professionals go through every day.

Our FORMx fabrication debuted in Q1 for environments where comfort and stretch are paramount, and we have seen momentum build as we have methodically expanded offerings throughout the year. We also just announced our next fabric solution, FIBERx, which is set to debut in Milan at the 2026 Winter Olympics. Lightweight yet structured, soft yet durable. This fabric is designed to work in environments, like for those supporting our Olympic athletes, where durability is particularly important.

Looking at our fit initiative, our efforts are already paying off with lower returns, fewer inbound comments to our customer experience team and improved customer trust. With our obsession with function and fit coming together, we are also excited with how our enhanced product design work will elevate the entire product portfolio in 2026 and beyond.

Continuing to build this strength in our core opens the aperture for outdating healthcare professionals from head to toe. For example, our recently introduced ArchTek compression socks demonstrate our latest commitment to category leadership as the first ever patented medical-grade compression socks in the market. Across additional areas such as outerwear, underscrubs and footwear, our team has developed a road map of how we plan to prioritize and build out these opportunities in the years ahead.

With confidence in great product, we are investing appropriately. Coming off recent periods of more conservative buying plans, we have made more informed and deeper inventory investments across certain styles and colors. This action has contributed to a better flow of newness to our healthcare professionals while also supporting better overall in-stock levels.

Finally, this all ties directly to our enhanced merchandising work around calendar alignment. We have added more rigor to how and when we deliver our product and messaging, efforts that have not only enhanced productivity across launch moments, but also our ability to leverage those moments in driving demand back to the core. This work has added importance as we reset our promotional cadence this year and as we execute against a repeatable, scalable framework for consistently delivering great products.

As excited as we are with our product direction, our impact would not be what it is without our unique ability to serve our community and build connections in ways that only FIGS can. We are seeing the payoff of our amazing top-of-funnel moments that started with some of last year's big brand splashes and have continued throughout 2025.

Looking at some of our recent successes, let's start with what was a unique opportunity heading into this year's Emmy awards. Last call, we detailed our advocacy work in Washington, D.C. with actor Noah Wyle, work which went viral across our community. When Noah was then nominated for Best Actor for The Pitt, he challenged us to make a tuxedo for the Emmy that was as comfortable as the scrubs he wears onset. We stepped up to the challenge by creating a first-of-its-kind tuxedo. With subtle details and craftsmanship, we are proud to support Noah's desire to bring the healthcare community directly to the red carpet.

As the night progressed and momentum built, we strategically aired our Where Do You Wear FIGS spot during the last commercial segment before the awards for Best Actor and Best drama were announced. This was executed perfectly as Noah and The Pitt went on to win both of those awards coming out of the break.

On stage, Noah eloquently dedicated his award to anybody who's coming on shift tonight or anyone who's coming off shift tonight. This overall moment became among the most viral in our history with multiple best dress nods for Noah and 175 total placements across traditional media and social, including over 30 top-tier press articles across fashion, entertainment and lifestyle outlets.

Most importantly, our actions led healthcare professionals, our awesome humans, to feel seen in a way they rarely do on the world's biggest stage. Our brand work was just getting started as we continued our year-long celebration of ready-to-wear FIGS. Following the Emmys, we debuted our global installment of the campaign filmed across Tokyo, London, Mexico City and Los Angeles, showing how medicine is a universal language. We are excited to be able to amplify our message in key countries with upper funnel support.

It is also important to highlight our work supporting breast cancer awareness. It's easy to highlight the commercial success of the campaign with our Epping Pink and Fight Club Pink color launches being one of our top-performing color drops in our history. The more important part, the harder part was showing the inspirational work of healthcare professionals, including Dr. Elisabeth Potter, a breast reconstruction surgeon from Austin, Texas.

The success of our campaign underscored how much she resonates and is at the forefront of industry conversations in the medical community. It also reinforced the type of impact that we aspire to with Dr. Potter proclaiming, you guys listen, we feel represented and you care about what we're going through. The success of these campaigns are further proof points of how we strike a deep emotional cord with healthcare professionals through the stories we tell.

This has always been part of the secret sauce at FIGS, but since our Olympics campaign in 2024, we've been on a run of our best top-of-funnel campaigns ever, and we're determined not to slow down. Not only are our campaigns resonating in unprecedented ways for the brand, but we are also matching this work with added sophistication in our measurement. Performance marketing tools are giving us added insight into when to lean into brand moments and how to optimize our messaging. Importantly, we still have considerable opportunities ahead as we think about leveraging unique views of healthcare professionals to better personalize their experiences.

Finally, it's important to highlight that our great execution is bolstered even further by an industry backdrop that is returning to its pillars of fundamental strength that most other apparel industries can only dream of. This includes the replenishment-driven, largely non-discretionary and seasonless nature of our scrubwear that healthcare professionals return to over and over again. It also involves a massive industry that is among the fastest-growing brand any sector with over 23 million U.S. and over 100 million international healthcare professionals. To put it simply, we are serving a strong industry with professionals that need uniforms to do their jobs.

Raising the bar further in these foundational areas also helps fuel our efforts across our 3 emerging growth drivers: international, teams and community hubs. We are making important investments across all 3 of these opportunities in 2025, and each is expected to scale in importance in the years ahead.

Starting with international, our expansion is a significant focus and one where we have a number of recent developments. With over 80% of global healthcare professionals located outside of the U.S. and driving less than 20% of our revenues, international remains a massive opportunity. We are rapidly expanding our footprint this year, jumping from 33 countries to nearly 60 planned international markets by the end of this year. We are driving this expansion in a disciplined way through 2 strategies, either go broad or go deep.

To go broad, we are focusing on low-touch ways to open markets, leveraging technology and regional commonalities to efficiently expand. Following 12 new Latin American markets we announced last quarter, we are on the cusp of opening 11 new markets across the Middle East and Africa region. We know that healthcare professionals globally have the same awful experience as they used to have domestically, and this strategy is an easy way to begin to reshape expectations in many smaller markets while also informing potential future investments.

With our go deep strategy, we're focusing on markets with more clearly defined opportunities and taking additional steps to more directly invest. For some of our more established markets like Canada, U.K. and Mexico, investments extend to infrastructure as we look to localize and scale. This includes adding in-market talent, brand marketing to drive awareness and logistics to drive more efficient operations and support profitable growth.

This strategy also informs our approach to several new markets, including the launch of Japan in Q2. This market is trending well to-date and providing great early learnings with how to serve locally. We also took the same level of care as we opened South Korea in October. We are excited to announce today that we plan to debut in China through Tmall later this quarter. While near-term contributions of these 3 new markets are expected to be modest, we see the opportunity for each to be significant drivers of our long-term international growth story.

We are also actively investing in our teams and community hub opportunities, solidifying each of their own foundation for meaningful growth going forward. With teams, we want to both capture the legacy demand for institutional-led buying and also influence behavior with great solutions to drive this mix even higher. To power these efforts, we have added talent to both nurture our great existing partnerships and also to better cultivate new ones. We also have a focus on unlocking seamless and customizable solutions for a wider range of institutions and are excited to begin deploying updated technology this quarter.

With Community Hubs, we are excited to debut 3 new stores this quarter, starting with New York's Upper East Side planned next week and then followed by planned openings in Houston and Chicago. Each of these locations will apply key learnings from our first 2 stores and apply updated design and merchandising elements to enhance the overall experience. We continue to see the value of having a physical presence for the brand, particularly with nearly 40% of customers coming in new to the brand. We remain confident in our disciplined approach and are well-positioned to accelerate our cadence of openings in 2026.

Before turning the call over to Sarah, I would like to reiterate how excited we are with our progress. As we have highlighted, the foundational pieces of our business are strengthening. Our community engagement has never been more impactful, and we see significant opportunities to sustain momentum in 2026 and beyond. Importantly, we will never lose our unyielding focus in support of the healthcare community. This is an intangible thing to measure, but one that defines our brand's leadership, caring, connection and authenticity.

This is our non-negotiable. It's how we drive relevance and staying power. At the same time, we're applying more discipline, talent and rigor across all the other factors that drive our business. We are positioned well to continue our momentum and amplify the brand over the long term.

With that, I'll pass it over to Sarah.

Sarah Oughtred
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Trina. Our year-to-date performance highlights the growing potential of the FIGS story as we more closely align our product strategy with our unique ability to drive impact for healthcare professionals. We are particularly encouraged to drive this high level of execution in a year where we had both a planned headwind with our promotional repositioning as well as an unplanned headwind with tariffs. As I'll discuss, we are excited to see the progress reflected in our full-year top and bottom line expectations that have moved markedly higher the past few quarters.

First, let me start with details of our strong third quarter performance. Net revenues increased 8% year-over-year to $151.7 million, ahead of our outlook of flat to up 2%. As Trina highlighted, our performance was underscored by both scrubwear growth and U.S. growth, each reaching 2-year highs as well as the extremely encouraging strength and momentum across our business as usual selling period.

These indicators continue to support our successful ability in resetting our promotional strategy this year, particularly with more aggressive action planned across the back half of the year. From a measurement standpoint, average order value increased 6% to $114, primarily driven by higher average unit retail due to product mix and a higher rate of full price sales.

Active customer growth has remained consistent throughout the year at plus 4%, pushing our active customer count to a company record of nearly 2.8 million. This growth comes despite our promotional reset, and we have seen momentum in our acquisition trends and sustained success in bringing lapsed customers back to the brand. We were also pleased to see our trailing 12-month measure for net revenues per active customer inflect positive for the first time in 3 years with 2% growth in the period to $209.

By category, scrubwear grew 8%, representing 84% of net revenues for the period. Results were ahead of plan with strength in our core products supported by impactful color stories, strategic positioning in key styles and effective merchandising and marketing. Color launches and cadencing were successful in not only driving excitement to new offerings, but also energized our core colors. Looser-fitting silhouettes are increasingly resonating, particularly in bottoms, and we are leading and investing in these areas.

Complementing our great assortment, we continue to drive cohesion with how and when we deliver and message to our customers, which is driving productivity. Non-scrubwear increased 7%, representing 16% of net revenues. We saw strong growth in underscrubs, which included new 3-quarter length versions of our popular Salta and Mercado styles and were inspired by customer feedback.

Shoes rebounded from some of the executional challenges in last year's period and were supported by strong coordination with our color stories. We were excited to launch our ArchTek socks at the end of the quarter, which we believe will be a great core offering to address healthcare professional needs going forward. Notably, results also reflect the comping of some Olympics-driven newness in areas like outerwear and bags, but we remain excited with the pipeline of products in these key areas going forward.

By geography, U.S. sales increased 8% to $127.3 million. This was our strongest performance over the past 9 quarters and continue to reflect balanced growth across both new and repeat customers. International net revenues increased 12%, led by particular strength in driving new customers. Headline growth was solid, but had some nuances that understated our overall strength.

In particular, we had a more significant reduction in promo days relative to the U.S., which had an outsized impact on Canada and Australia, 2 of our larger markets. Nonetheless, we are excited as we look at our overall performance, including active customers up strong double digits, AOV up in all regions and ahead of the consolidated growth and fantastic business as usual growth.

Gross margin for Q3 expanded 280 basis points to 69.9%. Key contributors to this year-over-year performance included lower discounts from the reduction in promotional days, improved return rates and processing, lower duties and reduced freight costs. These tailwinds were partially offset by higher tariffs.

Results were significantly better than planned, driving our best quarterly performance since early 2023 with broad-based upside, including conservative sell-through assumptions of the mix of non-tariff goods and through our improved returns processing work.

Our selling expense for Q3 was $35.8 million, representing 23.6% of net revenues compared to 27.5% last year. As a reminder, last year's third quarter included the majority of transition costs associated with the opening of our Arizona fulfillment center. In addition to lapping these costs, we drove continuous improvement here as we further optimize our business. We also saw improvements in shipping given our successful actions to optimize our carrier mix, improve pricing and drive strong service levels.

Marketing expense for Q3 was $23.5 million, representing 15.5% of net revenues, down from 20.3% last year. The reduction in the spending rate primarily reflected lapping last year's strategic investment to outfit the Team USA medical team at the Olympic Games and efficiency in marketing spend.

G&A for Q3 was $37.1 million, representing 24.5% of net revenues compared to 25.3% last year. Consistent with prior quarters, the lower G&A expense rate was primarily due to a meaningful reduction in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by higher people costs.

In total, our adjusted EBITDA for Q3 was $18.9 million with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 12.4% compared to 3.4% last year. Net income for the quarter was $8.7 million or diluted EPS of $0.05 compared to net loss of $1.7 million last year or diluted loss per share of $0.01.

On our balance sheet, we finished the third quarter with a strong net cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment position of $241.5 million. Inventory increased 23% year-over-year to $151.2 million or up 20% on a unit basis. Several factors are impacting the buildup of inventory.

As indicated last quarter, it starts with our action to support both product introductions and deeper investments in key styles, which we believe has helped drive some of the upside opportunity during the back half of the year. We also saw a higher-than-planned level of in-transit inventory, reflecting earlier timing given some of the process improvement we have been working to drive across the supply chain. While the gap between unit growth and dollars growth was modest during the quarter, we expect the growing impact of tariffs will contribute to a wider spread in Q4.

On the capital allocation side, we did not repurchase shares this period and have $52 million available for future repurchases under our current share repurchase program. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $2.9 million, primarily related to our 3 new community hubs, and we now expect approximately $7 million for the full-year.

Now turning to our updated outlook to close out the year. Full-year 2025 net revenues are now expected to grow approximately 7% year-over-year, ahead of our prior outlook of up low single digits. On top of our strong Q3 results, we see several factors supporting even better implied growth in Q4. To start, we had fantastic momentum coming out of the third quarter, starting with our hugely successful breast cancer awareness campaign and extending into our business as usual selling days.

As I also mentioned, we are investing more strategically in our inventory position to ensure better availability of key products and styles. This also drives what we expect to be our best balance of new colors and styles offered year-to-date, which is also proving effective at supporting the core business.

We are excited to continue to launch this newness with the same discipline that has supported our strong productivity this year. Finally, we will complete our year-long promotional reset this quarter, though do not expect the corresponding revenue drag to be as meaningful as Q3.

Looking at gross margins, our full-year 2025 outlook has improved from our prior call and now expect only a modest year-over-year decline from last year's level of 67.6%. A large part of the sequential improvement comes from the Q3 upside, though we do now expect less overall drag in Q4 as well. As a reminder, we faced 2 sizable headwinds in Q4.

First, we expect ramping sequential tariff pressure as more impacted goods average into our product costs. We continue to assume added tariffs of 20% in Vietnam and 15% in Jordan, which combined drive nearly all of our production. Second, we are also lapping a sizable onetime benefit from duty drawback claims in the year ago period.

However, similar to Q3, we have several items that are helping offset these pressures, including lower discounts, improvements in our returns processing and freight. Additionally, we are starting to get better scale on certain styles in conjunction with demand.

The full-year SG&A story continues to show strong leverage following last year's outsized investment. While Q4 is still expected to show some expense rate deleverage, the magnitude has been reduced primarily by the impact of our improved top line assumptions across each of our expense buckets.

More specifically, this quarter, selling expenses should continue to benefit from our scaling efforts and tariff mitigation strategies. The marketing expense rate is planned to meaningfully increase, reflecting both lower spend rate from the prior year as well as our ramping support for the forthcoming 2026 Winter Olympics. The G&A rate will continue to reflect lower year-over-year stock-based comp, partially offset by higher planned people costs.

Overall, we are updating our full-year adjusted EBITDA margin to approximately 10.3% compared to the prior range of 8.5% to 9% and ahead of the original outlook of 9% to 9.5%. We also want to provide several high-level comments that pertain to our early 2026 planning.

First, on net revenues. We are committed to growing the business in 2026, which should continue to be supported by strong current momentum and ongoing process improvements. Additionally, we expect the investments we have made in our 3 emerging growth drivers, international teams and community hubs will begin to have more material impact. While not all of these factors will have linear contributions, we are excited to further unlock these businesses given our strengthening core.

Next on tariff mitigation. As we have discussed, we have a number of levers across both product costs and SG&A that we have already pulled and some that remain in consideration. We have already seen strong execution as we optimize costs across inbound and outbound shipping and at our fulfillment center, benefits that we plan to extend into 2026.

Our supplier negotiations have been productive and are expected to yield additional savings next year. While we do not plan to take any pricing action in 2025, it remains a lever for next year. Finally, on margins, the bar for 2025 adjusted EBITDA margins has been raised despite an estimated unmitigated tariff drag of approximately 110 basis points. However, with an estimated annualized unmitigated impact of closer to 440 basis points, we expect that the majority of tariff headwinds is still ahead of us in 2026.

As such, we will use our ongoing planning process to continue monitoring the overall environment while also balancing our ongoing discipline, the full range of tariff mitigation as well as strategic investment levels. While it is too early to provide specifics, we do think it is important to note that we see opportunity for 2026 adjusted EBITDA margins to be within range of current 2025 expectations.

Overall, we are energized to be in such an incredible industry where serving healthcare professionals is paramount. With improving profitability and ample balance sheet flexibility, we believe we are positioned to remain on offense and drive the sustainable long-term growth story we see ahead.

I will now turn the call back over to the operator for Q&A. Operator?