H.B. Fuller Company (FUL) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 15, 2026 10:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Scott Jensen - Investor Relations
Celeste Mastin - President, CEO & Director
John Corkrean - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Michael Harrison - Seaport Research Partners
Ghansham Panjabi - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Kevin McCarthy - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
Jeffrey Zekauskas - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Patrick Cunningham - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Lucas Beaumont - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
David Begleiter - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and thank you for standing by. My name is Tiffany, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the H.B. Fuller Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to Scott Jensen, Head of Investor Relations. Sir, please go ahead.

Scott Jensen
Investor Relations

Thank you, operator.

Welcome to H.B. Fuller's Fourth Quarter 2025 Investor Conference Call. Presenting today are Celeste Mastin, President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Corkrean, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. After our prepared remarks, we will have a question-and-answer session. Before we begin, let me remind everyone that our comments today will include references to certain non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are supplemental to the results determined in accordance with GAAP.

We believe that these measures are useful to investors in understanding our operating performance and to compare our performance with other companies. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the nearest GAAP measure are included in our earnings release. Unless otherwise noted, comments about revenue refer to organic revenue and comments about EPS, EBITDA and profit margins refer to adjusted non-GAAP measures. We will also be making forward-looking statements during this call. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Actual results could differ materially from these expectations due to factors covered in our earnings release, comments made during this call and the risk factors detailed in our filings with the SEC, all of which are available on our website at investors.hbfuller.com.

I will now turn the call over to Celeste Mastin.

Celeste?

Celeste Mastin
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Scott, and welcome, everyone. Our execution and agility in the quarter and throughout the year generated double-digit EPS growth and EBITDA at the top end of our full year guidance range amidst an unpredictable economic backdrop and challenging demand landscape. During this time, we helped our customers navigate this environment successfully, providing them with material optionality and flexibility while ensuring consistent quality and reliable availability wherever in the world they chose to make their products. These efforts, which strengthened our partnerships and enhanced H.B. Fuller's competitive positioning are reflected in our improved profitability and sustained margin expansion. As a result, we are exiting the fourth quarter with strong momentum heading into 2026 and are firmly on track to achieve our target of greater than 20% EBITDA margin.

I am very proud of our team's resolve, resourcefulness and the meaningful progress we made in 2025 as we continue transforming H.B. Fuller into a higher growth, higher-margin company. Looking at our consolidated results in the fourth quarter, net revenue was down 3.1%, reflecting a continued weak economic backdrop and our strategic actions to reposition the portfolio. Net revenue was up about 1%, adjusting for the impact of the Flooring divestiture, which was a key step in that repositioning. Organic growth was down 1.3% year-on-year, volume down 2.5% and pricing was up 1.2% with positive pricing in all 3 GBUs. EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $170 million, up 15% year-on-year, and EBITDA margin was 19%, up 290 basis points year-on-year, driven by favorable pricing, raw material cost savings and restructuring actions, which more than offset lower volume. Now let me move on to review the performance in each of our segments in the fourth quarter. In HHC, organic revenue was down 1.8% year-on-year, driven by lower volume.

Strong growth in hygiene was more than offset by continued softness in packaging-related end markets. Despite the weak market and lower volumes, EBITDA was up almost 30% year-on-year for HHC in the fourth quarter and EBITDA margin improved 380 basis points to 17.5%, driven by favorable pricing, raw material savings and the impact of acquisitions, which more than offset lower volume. In Engineering Adhesives, organic revenue increased 2.2% in the fourth quarter, driven by both favorable pricing and volumes. Automotive, electronics and aerospace showed continued strength. Excluding solar, which we continued to deemphasize, EA delivered organic revenue growth of approximately 7%. As we progress through the year, EA continued to build momentum, reflecting our successful efforts to reposition the portfolio toward higher-growth markets.

Adjusted EBITDA for EA increased 17% year-on-year in the fourth quarter, driven by favorable pricing and raw materials as well as restructuring savings. EBITDA margin increased by 260 basis points year-on-year to 23.5%. In BAS, organic sales decreased 4.8% on broadly lower volume across the portfolio. Although the team is executing well, construction conditions remain muted. Additionally, BAS had a tough comparison in the fourth quarter of 2024 when the business delivered strong organic growth on new customer expansion. EBITDA for BAS decreased 7% versus the fourth quarter of last year as pricing gains and restructuring savings were more than offset by lower volume. Geographically, Americas organic revenue was flat year-on-year in the fourth quarter. Solid growth in EA, particularly aerospace and general industries was offset by weaker results in packaging and construction-related end markets.

In EIMEA, organic revenue was down 6% year-on-year, driven by lower volume in packaging and construction, which more than offset positive results in hygiene. Asia Pacific showed solid organic revenue growth in the quarter, up 3% year-on-year, driven by higher volume. Positive growth in EA and HHC, particularly in automotive, electronics and packaging more than offset lower year-on-year revenue in solar. Excluding solar, Asia Pacific organic revenue was up 10% year-on-year. Reflecting on fiscal 2025, the economic backdrop for the manufacturing sector was weaker than expected and end-user demand remained sluggish; however, we took proactive steps to overcome these headwinds in order to deliver on our profit commitments.

Specifically, we executed well on pricing and identified meaningful opportunities to reduce raw material costs and offset tariff impacts. We continue to reshape our portfolio by investing in higher-margin, faster-growing market segments while selecting out of businesses that didn't meet our growth or profit criteria. We also launched our manufacturing footprint and warehouse consolidation initiative, now known as Quantum Leap, which significantly improves our cost structure.

As a result, we are exiting the year with strong momentum, driven by the determination and outstanding execution of our team. Looking ahead to 2026, we expect the economic environment to remain challenging, similar to 2025, marked by ongoing geopolitical tensions, tariff uncertainty, elevated inflation and interest rates and continued labor constraints, all of which are likely to weigh on manufacturing investment. Despite these challenges, we anticipate delivering another year of profit growth and margin expansion in 2026 by building on the meaningful progress we made this year while staying firmly on track to achieve our target of greater than 20% EBITDA margin.

Now let me turn the call over to John Corkrean to review our fourth quarter results in more detail and our outlook for 2026.

John Corkrean
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Celeste. I'll begin with some additional financial details on the fourth quarter. For the quarter, revenue was down 3.1% versus the same period last year. Currency, acquisitions and the divestiture of the flooring business collectively had a negative impact of 1.8%. Adjusting for those items, organic revenue was down 1.3%, driven by lower volumes. Pricing was up 1.2%, reflecting positive pricing in all 3 GBUs. Adjusted gross profit margin of 32.5% increased 290 basis points year-on-year. The impact of pricing, raw material cost actions, acquisitions and divestitures and targeted cost reduction efforts drove the year-on-year increase in adjusted gross profit margin.

Adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses were down modestly year-on-year, driven by continued cost-saving efforts and lower variable compensation. Adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025 was $170 million, up 14.6% year-on-year, driven principally by the impact of pricing and raw material cost actions as well as restructuring savings. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 290 basis points year-on-year to 19%. Adjusted earnings per share of $1.28 was up 39% versus the fourth quarter of 2024, driven by higher operating income and lower shares outstanding as a result of our repurchase of approximately one million shares in fiscal 2025. Fourth quarter cash flow from operations of $107 million was up 25% year-on-year, driven by higher net income. Net working capital as a percentage of annualized net revenue increased 130 basis points year-on-year to 15.8%.

Net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 3.1x was down sequentially from 3.3x at the end of the third quarter and down from 3.5x at the end of the first quarter, consistent with our plan to reduce leverage during the year. With that, let me now turn to our guidance for the 2026 fiscal year. Despite a challenging economic backdrop, which we anticipate will be similar to 2025, we expect to deliver another year of profit growth and margin improvement. We anticipate full year net revenue to be flat to up 2% versus 2025, with organic revenue expected to be approximately flat. We also expect foreign currency translation to positively impact revenue by about 1%. We expect adjusted EBITDA to be between $630 million and $660 million as pricing and raw material cost actions and Quantum Leap savings more than offset wage and other inflation.

We expect our 2026 core tax rate to be between 26% and 27% compared to our 2025 core tax rate of 25.9%. We expect full year net interest expense to be approximately $120 million, depreciation and amortization to be approximately $185 million and the average diluted share count to be between 55 million and 56 million shares with share repurchases offsetting shares issued through compensation plans. These assumptions result in full year adjusted earnings per share in the range of $4.35 to $4.70.

Finally, we expect full year operating cash flow to be between $275 million and $300 million, weighted to the back half of the year before approximately $160 million of capital expenditures, which includes approximately $50 million of capital related to Project Quantum Leap. Taking into account the typical seasonality of our business and the later timing of Chinese New Year, we expect first quarter revenue to be down low single digits and adjusted EBITDA to be between $110 million and $120 million.

Now let me turn the call back over to Celeste.

Celeste Mastin
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, John. During 2025, the execution and determination of our team allowed us to deliver on our profit commitments for the year while continuing to make meaningful positive long-term changes to the portfolio as we build for the future, including manufacturing footprint consolidation, price and raw material management and portfolio mix shift. M&A continues to be an important part of our value creation strategy as we shared during our October Investor Day. In 2023 and 2024, we acquired 8 companies with a combined EBITDA of $41 million. Those acquisitions delivered $73 million of EBITDA in 2025, representing a post-synergy purchase price multiple of 6.7x EBITDA.

During 2025, we executed on several acquisitions in medical adhesives and fastener coating systems. Early in the year, we completed the acquisition of GEM and Medifill, formulators, manufacturers and marketers of state-of-the-art medical-grade adhesives for internal indications. These businesses have performed exceptionally well with revenue up approximately 15% versus pre-acquisition 2024 and EBITDA up almost 30%, consistent with our deal model. Recall, we acquired ND Industries in 2024 for its unique encapsulated adhesive technology, knowledgeable employees and the coating service to apply these unique adhesives to mechanical fasteners.

ND Industries expanded our product range for customers in high-growth markets like automotive and aerospace and puts us in a position to provide a service, further linking us to those customers. We saw ND as a platform from which we could expand this technology and service offering globally. And in 2025, we did just that. We acquired 3 small fastener coating companies to aid our global expansion. Early in 2025, we acquired businesses in Taiwan and Shanghai, giving us access to the fastener coating markets in Asia. And in late 2025, we acquired a fastener coating business in Turkey, giving us access to the broader European and Middle Eastern markets. Collectively, we paid $17 million for these 3 acquisitions, which are expected to generate $3 million of EBITDA in 2026.

While the collective value sounds small, these 3 outposts give us access to a fast-growing $0.5 billion market in Asia and Europe. This expanded platform features a differentiated technology offering, long-tenured customer relationships and a strong competitive position in the fastener coating market. As we shared at our Investor Day, our M&A strategy is an EBITDA compounder. This is an excellent example of a platform business with a good organic growth profile that we expect to significantly expand through revenue and cost synergies as we rapidly build share in this technology-driven, fast-growing and expandable market.

Finally, I would like to take this time to acknowledge and thank all our employees for their dedication and hard work throughout the year. Your commitment and the strength of our culture have enabled us to make meaningful progress on all of our strategic initiatives. That same culture has been recognized externally as well with Newsweek naming us one of America's most Admired Workplaces for 2026 and Forbes naming us one of America's Best Employers for engineers.

As we look ahead to 2026, we remain committed to advancing the long-term strategic plan we have set in place. While global conditions remain unpredictable, we're taking the necessary steps to manage costs responsibly, execute our global initiatives with discipline and navigate through this period with focus and resilience. That concludes our prepared remarks for today. Operator, please open the line for questions.

