The Greenbrier Companies, Inc. (GBX) Q1 2026 Earnings Call January 8, 2026 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Justin Roberts - Vice President Operations Finance of The Americas
Travis Williams
Lorie Leeson - President, CEO & Director
Brian Comstock - Executive Vice President & President of The Americas
Michael Donfris - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Andrzej Tomczyk - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Bascome Majors - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Ken Hoexter - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to the Greenbrier Companies First Quarter 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] At the request of the Greenbrier Companies, this conference call is being recorded for instant replay purposes.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Justin Roberts, Vice President of Financial Operations, the Americas. Mr. Roberts, you may begin.

Justin Roberts
Vice President Operations Finance of The Americas

Thank you, Gary. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our first quarter of fiscal 2026 conference call. Today, I am joined by Lorie Tekorius, Greenbrier's CEO and President; Brian Comstock, Executive Vice President and President of the Americas; and Michael Donfris, Senior Vice President and CFO.

Following our update on Greenbrier's Q1 performance and our outlook for fiscal '26, we will open the call for questions. Our earnings release and supplemental slide presentation can be found on the IR section of our website. Matters discussed on today's conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Throughout our discussion today, we will describe some of the important factors that could cause Greenbrier's actual results in 2026 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of Greenbrier. We will refer to recurring revenue throughout our comments today. Recurring revenue is defined as leasing and fleet management revenue, excluding the impact of syndication transactions.

Before I turn the call over to Lorie, I would like to take a moment and introduce Travis Williams, Greenbrier's new Head of Investor Relations. Travis joined Greenbrier this week to lead the IR function. His background includes buy-side and sell-side analyst experience and most recently he led the IR function in-house at a publicly traded industrial tool manufacturing company. Please join me in welcoming him.

Travis Williams

Thanks, Justin. Excited to be on board.

Lorie Leeson
President, CEO & Director

Welcome, Travis, and thank you, Justin, and good afternoon, everyone. Appreciate you guys joining us today. Greenbrier delivered good first quarter performance, exhibiting our disciplined execution and the resilience of our business. Our results demonstrate the strength of our integrated manufacturing and leasing model, continued progress on operating efficiency initiatives and determined action on the things we can control.

As a result, meaningful earnings, strong liquidity and progress on our long-term strategic priorities were highlights in Q1. Our model is designed to outperform during a business environment like the current one, and our model delivered, producing what we describe as higher lows through the cycle and as reflected in our 15% aggregate gross margin this quarter.

Customers across North America and Europe are circumspect about capital investments as they evaluate current freight volumes, ongoing trade policy considerations and improving rail service that has increased railroad velocity, reducing the near-term pressure for new rolling stock. These conditions impact the timing of new railcar orders, but do not change the underlying long-term replacement demand.

In this environment, execution matters and Greenbrier's commercial team continues to perform well. We are competing effectively and securing high-quality orders despite intense competition. As the quarter progressed, order momentum improved, reinforcing our confidence in the durability of customer demand. Brian will provide more details in a few minutes. Trade and tariff policy remains an important consideration for our customers and the industry. While policy considerations influence the timing of customer decisions, it does not change the long-term fundamentals of the railcar replacement cycle or Greenbrier's competitive position. We stay engaged with customers and industry stakeholders and are winning business in this evolving landscape.

Operationally, we're taking proactive steps to align our manufacturing footprint with current demand levels while continuing to invest in efficiency, cost discipline and process improvement. Production rates moderated slightly, and we adjusted headcount accordingly, primarily in Mexico, which allowed us to intensify our focus on overhead optimization and operational excellence. These actions are structural and position Greenbrier to respond quickly and profitably as the market evolves.

In Europe, market conditions remain complex and performance was affected by operating inefficiencies as we continue to execute restructuring and rightsizing initiatives. We're confident that these actions will strengthen our European platform over time and drive improved competitiveness and profitability. Brazil continues to provide diversification within our portfolio. Economic conditions there remain relatively stable, customer engagement is steady and our operations delivered consistent performance.

Our leasing and fleet management business continues to provide stability and growth. As we continue disciplined fleet construction and management, this business remains an important source of recurring earnings and through-cycle resilience.

Turning briefly to capital allocation. Our priorities remain unchanged. We continue to deploy capital where returns are strongest maintain balance sheet strength and liquidity and return capital to shareholders. We opportunistically sold railcars from the fleet at attractive values, recycling capital, while contributing meaningfully to earnings and cash flow.

Looking ahead, we are reiterating our fiscal 2026 guidance. And while near-term market conditions remain varied, our outlook reflects the improved foundation of our business, disciplined execution and the flexibility built into our operating model. We remain confident in our ability to navigate current conditions and position Greenbrier for long-term value creation.

In closing, I want to recognize our employees for their continued focus, flexibility and commitment. Periods like this demand discipline and teamwork, and I'm proud of how the Greenbrier team continues to execute. Our integrated model, strong liquidity position and experienced leadership team position us well to manage the current environment and to capitalize as markets recover.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Brian, who will walk through our operational performance in more detail.

Brian Comstock
Executive Vice President & President of The Americas

Thank you, Lorie, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll briefly cover our operating performance for Q1, including orders and business activity in our manufacturing, leasing and management services units. Commercial activity strengthened late in the quarter, and we converted that into diversified high-quality orders in a competitive market. We remain focused on order quality and backlog mix prioritizing opportunities, where we offer differentiated value and can achieve attractive returns.

We received global orders for approximately 3,700 railcars valued at roughly $550 million. Orders were diversified across regions and car types, led by tank cars and covered hoppers. Included in this figure were several specialty railcar orders with higher average selling prices, reflecting our ability to support complex and unique customer requirements.

Backlog value was relatively unchanged. And we ended the quarter with a backlog of approximately 16,300 units valued at about $2.2 billion. As always, we remain focused on order quality and mix to support efficient production scheduling and attractive margins.

Turning to manufacturing. We continue to proactively align production levels with current demand conditions and expect to modestly adjust rates further in the second quarter. Headcount reductions continued across North American manufacturing, primarily in Mexico, reflecting disciplined workforce alignment.

Our management team is experienced and agile, and we continue to manage the business to efficiently navigate the current demand environment. At the same time, we are using this period to achieve greater structural efficiency and cost discipline. Overhead optimization initiatives continue to gain traction with teams identifying opportunities to streamline processes, reduce fixed costs and improve productivity.

These efforts position our manufacturing platform to scale efficiently as demand recovers. The lease fleet performed at a high level with utilization nearly 98% strong retention and improving economics on renewals. The size of the fleet remained relatively stable as we recycled capital through opportunistic asset sales in a strong secondary market.

We also optimized fleet mix, both in terms of credit quality and car tech composition. We expanded the use of Greenbrier's maintenance network for our lease fleet and drove other enhancements to the customer experience. Combined, these efforts support consistent execution and position the leasing business to continue contributing meaningfully through the cycle.

In summary, our teams executed well in Q1. We aligned production with demand advanced efficiency initiatives, strengthened our backlog and continue to grow and optimize our leasing platform. These actions reinforce the durability of our operating model and position Greenbrier to navigate current conditions, while remaining well prepared for future market expansion.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Michael to discuss our financial results.

Michael Donfris
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you, Brian. Revenue for Q1 was $706 million, essentially in line with expectations. Aggregate gross margin of 15% reflects lower production rates and deliveries in Q4, partially offset by continued strong margins in leasing and fleet management and disciplined execution across the broader manufacturing platform.

Selling and administrative expenses were $11 million less than Q4 totaling $60 million. This was driven primarily by lower employee-related expenses. And in addition, Q4 included $3.1 million in European footprint rationalization costs. Operating income was $61 million, approximately 9% of revenue.

Diluted EPS was $1.14 and EBITDA for the quarter was $98 million or 14% of revenue, representing a strong result and reflecting the benefits of disciplined execution, selectively recycling capital through fleet sales in a strong used equipment market and growing contribution from our leasing platform.

For the 12 months ending November 30, 2025, our return on invested capital was 10% and continues to be within our 2026 target of 10% to 14%. As noted in our earnings release, effective September 1, 2025, we changed the methodology for allocating syndication activity, resulting in syndication activity being reflected in the manufacturing segment instead of leasing and fleet management segment. This change has no impact on consolidated results.

Turning to the balance sheet. Greenbrier's Q1 liquidity has -- was the highest in the 20 quarters at over $895 million, consisting of more than $300 million in cash on hand and $535 million in available borrowing capacity. We generated $76 million in operating cash flow for the quarter, supported by solid earnings, proceeds from fleet sales and favorable working capital movements.

Liquidity remains robust, reflecting disciplined execution, ongoing working capital management and a well-structured capital base. Now switching to capital allocation. We remain committed to responsibly returning capital to our shareholders through a combination of dividends and stock buybacks. Greenbrier's Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.32 per share, this is our 47th consecutive quarterly dividend and reflects our confidence in the business.

Additionally, during the first quarter, we repurchased about $13 million of common stock under our existing authorization. As of quarter end, approximately $65 million is available for future repurchases. We will continue to access this capacity opportunistically consistent with marketing conditions and our broader capital allocation framework.

Now turning to guidance. We are reiterating our operating guidance and updating capital expenditure guidance for fiscal 2026. Our focus remains on driving profitability through operational efficiency increased recurring revenue and disciplined capital use. With our resilient business model and strong balance sheet, we are well positioned for continued performance and long-term value creation.

Our guidance for fiscal 2026 is as follows: new railcar deliveries of 17,500 to 20,500 units, including approximately 1,500 units in our Greenbrier-Maxion Brazil. Revenue between $2.7 billion to $3.2 billion. Aggregate gross margin of 16% to 16.5%, operating margin between 9% and 9.5% and earnings per share of $3.75 to $4.75.

Greenbrier's capital expenditures and manufacturing are projected to be approximately $80 million. And gross investment in leasing and fleet management will be roughly $205 million. Proceeds from equipment sales are expected to be around $165 million. I will point out, we are pursuing assets in the used equipment market in an opportunistic, disciplined manner and may end up at a higher investment level.

Greenbrier delivered good financial performance in the first quarter and maintained a strong balance sheet and liquidity position. Our integrated business model, disciplined capital allocation and focus on execution position us well to navigate throughout the cycle and create long-term shareholder value.

With that, we'll open the call for questions.

