General Electric Company (GE) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 7:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Blaire Shoor - Head of Investor Relations
H. Culp - Chairman & CEO
Rahul Ghai - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

John Godyn - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Myles Walton - Wolfe Research, LLC
Douglas Harned - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Scott Deuschle - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Seth Seifman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Ronald Epstein - BofA Securities, Research Division
Gavin Parsons - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Noah Poponak - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Gautam Khanna - TD Cowen, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the GE Aerospace Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] My name is Liz, and I will be your conference coordinator today. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I'd now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Blaire Shoor from the GE Aerospace Investor Relations team. Please proceed.

Blaire Shoor
Head of Investor Relations

Thanks, Liz. Welcome to GE Aerospace's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Call. I'm joined by Chairman and CEO, Larry Culp; and CFO, Rahul Ghai. Many of the statements we're making are forward-looking and based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. As described in our SEC filings and website, those elements may change as the world changes. Additionally, Larry and Rahul, consistent with prior quarters, will speak to total company and corporate financial results and guidance on a non-GAAP basis. Now over to Larry.

H. Culp
Chairman & CEO

Blaire, thanks, and good morning, everyone. I'd like to begin with our purpose. We invent the future of flight, lift people up and bring them home safely. Right now, nearly 1 million people are in flight with our technology underwing, connecting people and goods worldwide. We play a vital role in powering the war fighters, who defend freedom. And while we work to deliver for our customers today, we're also embedding technology that will propel the industry forward tomorrow. Our purpose is our call to action, and I couldn't be prouder of what our team achieved in 2025, but also how we got there with our culture of respect for people, being customer-driven and continuous improvement.

Turning to our results on Slide 4. 2025 was an outstanding year for GE Aerospace as we made operational progress, delivered on our financial commitments and continued to invest in our future. The fourth quarter was a strong finish to the year. Orders were up 74%, reflecting continued robust demand for our services and equipment. Revenue increased 20% with double-digit growth in both segments. EPS was up 19% to $1.57 and free cash flow grew 15%. For the full year, we drove substantial improvement across all key metrics. Orders were up 32%, revenue increased 21%, operating profit grew $1.8 billion and free cash flow was up $1.5 billion. In CES, orders were up 35% and revenue grew 24%, including services orders up 27% and revenue up 26%. This supported our profit growing 26% to $8.9 billion.

In DPT, orders increased 19% and revenue was up 11% with increased deliveries in defense. Profit increased 22% to $1.3 billion. Our performance reflects the impact of FLIGHT DECK, driving incremental gains that compounded into meaningful improvements. This enables us to accelerate output to deliver on our roughly $190 billion backlog, which is up nearly $20 billion over the last year. We are also investing to improve time on wing and reduce cost of ownership to deliver value to our customers, supporting growth today, tomorrow and into the future. I want to thank the entire GE Aerospace team, our suppliers and our customers who put their trust in us. Looking to 2026, we're poised for another year of substantial revenue, EPS and cash growth. Demand remains robust with 2025 orders up 32% and continued backlog growth. This supports our expectation for revenue to be up low double digits, including commercial services up mid-teens.

We expect operating profit of $9.85 billion to $10.25 billion, up $1 billion at the midpoint. This translates to EPS of $7.10 to $7.40, up nearly 15% at the midpoint. And we expect to generate $8 billion to $8.4 billion of free cash flow with conversion remaining well above 100%. This outlook builds on the progress we made in '24 and '25. We expect to deliver mid-teens revenue growth between '24 and '26 compounded and $10 billion of profit in '26, 2 years earlier than our outlook at spin. We continue to convert this into cash, expecting to generate more than $20 billion of cash between '24 and '26 to reinvest in our future, including in U.S. manufacturing to support both our commercial and defense customers. GE Aerospace is an exceptional franchise, servicing and growing the industry's most extensive installed base of 80,000 engines. As we further embed FLIGHT DECK, we'll unlock greater value for our customers and shareholders.

Turning to Slide 6. In their first year, our technology and operations or T&O team made a meaningful impact. We partnered more effectively with our suppliers, resulting in material input from our priority suppliers growing over 40% year-over-year in 2025 and up double digits sequentially in the fourth quarter, both translating to higher outputs. While we're making progress, we know our customers need more from us. To further accelerate our progress in 2026, we're expanding CES to include T&O, now led by Mohamed Ali. Integrating our product line, engineering and supply chain teams will improve our end-to-end engine life cycle management. We're also elevating our customer-facing teams led by Jason Tonich, now reporting directly to me, aligned with our customer-driven approach. These changes will enable greater cross-functional problem solving, agility and alignment to deliver for our customers.

I also want to take a moment to thank Russell Stokes, who announced he'll retire from GE Aerospace in July after 29 years of service. His continuous improvement mindset and passion for developing leaders help build this world-class business. Russell was one of the first leaders I met here at GE, and he's been a critical partner over the last 7 years. We wish him nothing but success in his next chapter. These changes, along with FLIGHT DECK will further support growth in deliveries in '26. Across our MRO network, we are removing waste to improve shop visit output and turnaround times. For example, we're converting from batch to flow production, which supported LEAP, CFM56 and GE90 turnaround times, improving over 10% year-over-year in the fourth quarter. Additionally, at our Wales facility, CFM56 turnaround time improved by 20%. And at Celma, we sustained turnaround times below 80 days. This enabled us to deliver our highest LEAP shop visit output of the year.

With LEAP installed base expected to roughly triple between '24 and '30, we're expanding capacity across our global MRO network to support aftermarket demand. In 2025, we added MTU Dallas as our sixth premier MRO partner, supporting third-party shop visit growth, now representing around 15% of total LEAP shop visits. We're dedicating approximately $500 million of our more than $1 billion of investment in MRO to LEAP. This includes expanding several MRO sites, including Malaysia, Celma and Dallas and a new on-wing support facility in Dubai. We expect these investments will roughly double LEAP internal capacity.

Taken together, these actions drove meaningful progress in services and equipment output in 2025. CES services revenue increased 26% with internal shop visit revenue up 24%, including LEAP internal shop visit volume up 27%. Spare parts revenue grew more than 25%. Deliveries across commercial and defense increased 26% for the year, including a strong finish with 8% sequential growth in the fourth quarter. Commercial units increased 25%, including LEAP up 28%, exceeding 1,800 units, a record output for the program. And defense engine deliveries increased 30%. While 2025 marked a year of progress, we know there is more to do to meet customer demand, and I'm confident we'll deliver.

Turning to Slide 7. One of the behaviors that guides us is to be customer-driven in all that we do. We're leveraging over 2.3 billion flight hours and nearly $3 billion in annual R&D to drive meaningful improvements for our customers. Our focus remains on delivering mature levels of time on wing and lowering cost of ownership. In November, the GEnx fleet leader equipped with the upgraded HPT blade, which has improved time on wing over 2.5x in hot and harsh environments, achieved a new milestone surpassing 4,000 cycles. Informed by our progress with the GEnx, the LEAP-1A durability kit will improve time on wing by more than 2x, matching our industry-leading CFM56 performance. This is now incorporated in all LEAP-1A new engine deliveries and shop visits with nearly 1,500 kits shipped since certification. In addition to improved durability, we're also expanding our LEAP repair catalog, which will lower cost of ownership and improve turnaround times.

In '25, LEAP parts certified for repair increased 20%, and we expect continued growth in '26. Combined with our progress on delivery, we're actively working to meet customer expectations on LEAP. At the same time, utilization of our mature engines remains robust. CFM56 is the most widely owned and operated engine in commercial aviation with retirements in '25 consistent with '24 levels. The third-party MRO ecosystem provides customers with optionality for servicing their fleets, supporting higher asset values and lowering cost of ownership. And we continue to strengthen MRO access to OEM materials to support further CFM56 longevity.

Last quarter, for example, we reached a materials agreement with FTAI Aviation to support service of its growing fleet of CFM56 engines. We're also progressing the next generation of engines. We recently completed a ground test campaign demonstrating our first hybrid electric narrow-body engine architecture. This first-of-its-kind propulsion milestone demonstrates systems integration, advancing the technology from concept to practical scalable application. As we deliver greater customer value and advanced breakthrough technologies, we're growing our backlog.

At the Dubai Air Show, we recorded over 500 engine wins across narrowbodies and widebodies, including Riyadh Air's commitment for 120 LEAP-1A engines and flydubai's selection of 60 GEnx engines. Additionally, Pegasus Airlines committed to up to 300 LEAP-1B engines to power its future Boeing 737-10 fleet. And we're honored that Delta, a new GEnx customer, selected us to power and service their new fleet of 30 Boeing 787s. In defense, Hindustan Aeronautics ordered 113 F404 engines for the Tejas fighter jets, demonstrating our position as a trusted partner for allied fighter programs. Overall, we're driving progress, improving field performance, turnaround times and advancing future propulsion technologies. We're well positioned to strengthen our leadership across both the commercial and defense sectors in 2026. Rahul, over to you.

Rahul Ghai
Senior VP & CFO

Larry, thank you, and good morning, everyone. We closed out 2025 with another strong quarter. Fourth quarter orders were up 74% with CES up 76% and DPT up 61%. Revenue was up 20%, led by CES services up 31%. Operating profit was $2.3 billion, up 14%. Services volume, productivity and price were partially offset by the impact of lower spare engine ratio, OE growth, including 9X shipments and investments. Margins as per prior guidance were down 90 basis points to 19.2%. EPS was $1.57, up 19% from increased operating profit, a lower tax rate and a reduced share count. Free cash flow was $1.8 billion, up 15%, largely driven by higher earnings with over 100% conversion. For the year, our results exceeded the high end of our guidance on all key metrics.

Orders were up 32%, with commercial services orders up 27% and total equipment up 48%. Revenue increased 21% from commercial services that was up 26% and higher deliveries of both commercial and defense units. Operating profit increased 25% to $9.1 billion, with margins expanding 70 basis points to 21.4% as commercial services volume and price offset OE growth and investments. EPS increased 38% to $6.37. Free cash flow grew 24% or $1.5 billion to $7.7 billion with conversion over 110%, driven by earnings growth and continued contract asset favorability, which was partially offset by inventory growth to support continued output increases in 2026. Overall, very strong performance for GE Aerospace, positioning us well for 2026.

Turning to our segments, starting with CES. In the fourth quarter, orders were up 76% with services up 18% and equipment more than doubling. Revenue increased 24%. Services were up 31%. Internal shop visit revenue grew 30% from higher volume and increased work scopes. Spare parts sales were up over 25% as improved material availability supported increased output. Equipment grew 7%, with engine deliveries up 40%, including LEAP up 49%. This more than offset a decline in spare engine ratio due to timing of back-end loaded spare engine deliveries in 2024. For the year, spare engine ratio was lower than '24 as planned.

Profit was $2.3 billion, up 5% from higher services volume with improved margins, price and favorable mix. This was partially offset by the impact of lower spare engine ratio, higher installed shipments, including 9X and an increase in R&D. As expected, margins were down 420 basis points to 24%. For the year, CES delivered outstanding results with orders growing 35% and services revenue and engine output both up roughly 25%. This supported profit growing 26% to $8.9 billion and margins expanding 40 basis points to 26.6% from services growth, productivity and price.

Moving to DPT. Orders were up 61%, with defense book-to-bill above 2. Revenue grew 13%. Defense and systems revenue was up 2%. Defense units were down 7% due to a difficult compare, which was more than offset by price and customer mix. Sequentially, this was the third consecutive quarter of strong defense engine shipments with full year deliveries up 30%. Propulsion and additive technologies grew 33%, led by higher commercial and military volume at Avio. Profit was up 5% from volume, favorable mix and price that was partially offset by investments and inflation. Margins were down 70 basis points to 8.9%. DPT also had a solid year with orders up 19% and defense book-to-bill of 1.5, with backlog now at $21 billion, up nearly $3 billion. Improved output supported revenue growing 11%. Profit was $1.3 billion with margins up 110 basis points to 12.3% from volume, mix and price.

Going deeper into the drivers of our 38% EPS growth for the year. Growth in operating profit drove $1.32 or 75% of the improvement in EPS, with increased profit in CES and DPT, partially offset by higher corporate costs and eliminations. Corporate cost was roughly $570 million, up about $170 million due to lower interest income. Eliminations were about $530 million, up approximately $70 million. Lower tax rate, a reduction in share count and interest expense accounted for an additional $0.46 of EPS growth. Tax rate was down 3 points for the year, primarily from the benefits of long-term tax planning projects and share count reduced by 26 million.

Turning to Slide 12. We are updating our segment reporting to reflect the organizational changes announced last week. Importantly, there is no change to total company metrics. Aeroderivative engines, which were previously reported in CES, will be included with DPT to drive greater supply chain alignment with the Marine and Mobility business. As a result, roughly $1.4 billion of revenue and a couple of hundred million dollars of profit will move from CES to DPT. With the expansion of CES to include T&O, we are also transitioning the cost of remaining sites and external engineering revenue to their respective businesses. This results in a small change to corporate costs and eliminations. The resegmentation impact is reflected in the 2025 segment financials on the left side of the page. We've also included a preliminary bridge in the appendix and plan to provide recasted segment financials for first quarter earnings.

Turning to guidance, starting with CES. We expect mid-teens revenue growth, including services up mid-teens. This includes internal shop visit revenue and spare parts revenue, both up mid-teens from low double-digit revenue -- low double-digit engine removals, combined with higher work scopes and price. LEAP internal shop visits are expected to grow 25%. We expect equipment up mid- to high teens, including LEAP deliveries up 15% with higher growth from wide-body programs. We expect $9.6 billion to $9.9 billion of profit, up about $1.2 billion at the midpoint. This reflects the benefit of services growth and price, which is partially offset by OE growth, including 9X, a lower spare engine ratio and continued investments.

In DPT, we expect mid- to high single-digit revenue growth and profit of $1.55 billion to $1.65 billion. Higher deliveries will be partially offset by inflation, mix and investments. Corporate costs and eliminations are up year-over-year to $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion from lower interest income, AI investments and higher eliminations from internal PAT growth. In total, we expect low double-digit revenue growth for the company with profit in the range of $9.85 billion to $10.25 billion, up $1 billion or more than 10% at the midpoint.

Further unpacking the drivers of EPS and free cash flow growth, we expect EPS in the range of $7.10 to $7.40, up nearly 15% at the midpoint. About 85% of the improvement will be from higher operating profit. The balance will be from a marginal improvement in the tax rate to below 17% and a reduction of 18 million shares from our previously completed and announced capital allocation actions. Interest expense is expected to be roughly $900 million. We expect to generate $8 billion to $8.4 billion of free cash flow, primarily from higher earnings. Working capital and AD&A combined will be a source year-over-year from slower inventory growth. We continue to expect CapEx at roughly 3% of sales. Overall, we expect another year of conversion solidly above 100%. Taken together, GE Aerospace is poised for another year of solid growth ahead. With that, Larry, back to you.

H. Culp
Chairman & CEO

Rahul, thank you. 2025 was another outstanding year. Our sustained competitive advantages support our leadership positions across both commercial and defense. With the industry's largest fleet, 80,000 engines and growing, we've accumulated over 2.3 billion flight hours. This experience keeps us close to our customers through decade-long life cycles, building enduring relationships and making us the partner of choice. This field experience, combined with our nearly $3 billion in annual R&D investments allows us to drive continuous improvement across our services and products, enhancing time on wing and lower cost of ownership.

As a result, across our narrow-body, wide-body, regional and defense platforms, we offer the best-performing products under wing. Our world-class engineering teams developed next-gen technology to improve durability, efficiency and turnaround times, along with advanced defense capabilities. Through FLIGHT DECK, we're turning strategy into results with a focus on safety, quality, delivery and cost always in that order. Stepping back, the GE Aerospace team is focused and ready for what's ahead in 2026. We're well positioned to deliver for our customers and shareholders, and I'm confident in our trajectory. With that, Blaire, let's go to questions.

Blaire Shoor
Head of Investor Relations

[Operator Instructions] Liz, can you please open the line?

