General Motors Company (GM) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Ashish Kohli - Vice President of Investor Relations
Mary Barra - Chairman & CEO
Paul Jacobson - Executive VP & CFO
Susan Sheffield - President & Chief Executive Officer

Conference Call Participants

Dan Levy - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Michael Ward - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Joseph Spak - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Andrew Percoco - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
James Picariello - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Itay Michaeli - TD Cowen, Research Division
Colin Langan - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Emmanuel Rosner - Wolfe Research, LLC
Ryan Brinkman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Mark Delaney - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to the General Motors Company Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded Tuesday, January 27, 2026.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Ashish Kohli, GM's Vice President of Investor Relations.

Ashish Kohli
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, Amanda, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining us as we review GM's financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2025. Our conference call materials were issued this morning and are available on GM's Investor Relations website. We are also broadcasting this call via webcast.

Joining us today are Mary Barra, GM's Chair and CEO; along with Paul Jacobson, GM's Executive Vice President and CFO. Susan Sheffield, President and CEO of GM Financial will also be joining us for the Q&A portion.


On today's call, management will make forward-looking statements about our expectations. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include the factors identified in our filings with the SEC. Please review the safe harbor statement on the first page of our presentation as the content of this call will be governed by this language.

And with that, I'm delighted to turn the call over to Mary.

Mary Barra
Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Ashish, and good morning, everyone. I'm incredibly proud of our global team, including our dealers and suppliers for delivering an exceptional 2025. Together, we grew the business and adapted to significant changes in tax and trade policy, to deliver full year EBIT adjusted at the high end of our guidance range. We are pleased that we delivered a total return of 54% for our investors, and I'd like to share some of the operating highlights that underscore our momentum.

In the United States, we achieved our highest full year market share in a decade. In fact, 2025 was our fourth consecutive year of market share growth and we continue to deliver with low inventory, low incentives and strong pricing. Once again, GM led the industry in full-size pickups and full-size SUVs, and we had our best year ever in crossovers, driven by vehicles like the redesigned Chevrolet Equinox and Traverse. We have also been very successful with smaller profitable crossovers like the Chevrolet Trax, and Buick Envista because we provide tremendous value with great styling, technology and a suite of safety features at some of the lowest prices in the market.

We're very proud that Car and Driver name Chevrolet Trax to its 10 best list for the third year in a row joining the Chevrolet Corvette, Cadillac CT5-V Blackwing, and our full-size SUVs. Not only that, but the Cadillac Escalade IQ won MotorTrend's prestigious SUV and Technology of the Year awards. Lastly, the vehicle and technology solutions that GM involve delivers to our commercial, government and rental customers helped us lead the U.S. fleet segment for the second consecutive year. We demonstrated another true core competency throughout the year, our agility and speed in adapting to change. We proactively managed our net tariff exposure, reducing it well below our initial expectations, thanks to self-help initiatives and policy actions that support companies like GM that have substantial and growing commitments to American manufacturing.

We were also quick to respond to slowing EV demand by selling our share in the Ultium Cells Lansing plant and pivoting Orion Assembly from EV to ICE production. Our compelling vehicle and technology portfolio, a resilient U.S. market and the steps we have taken to strengthen our position should help make 2026 an even better year for GM. The charges we took in the second half of the year to reduce EV capacity will reduce our fixed cost and resolve the majority of our commercial claims tied to lower volume.

In addition, our warranty expense is moving in the right direction and our EV losses will be lower. As a result, we expect full year EBIT adjusted margins in North America will be back in the 8% to 10% margin range. We are also operating in a U.S. regulatory and policy environment that is increasingly aligned with customer demand. This allows us to onshore more production to help meet strong demand for our ICE vehicles. We continue to believe in EVs and our portfolio brought almost 100,000 new customers to GM last year. We know EV drivers don't often go back to ICE, so we'll continue executing our plan to dramatically reduce costs and to be well positioned for the future. This will require continued investment but at much lower levels, and I'm confident in our path to profitability.

Our strong foundation and operating discipline are why our average annual free cash flow generation has structurally improved from $3 billion to $10 billion over the last 5 years. Consistently strong cash generation has allowed us to execute all phases of our capital allocation program from investing in the business and our people to maintaining a strong balance sheet and returning capital to shareholders. We believe that formula is sustainable, which is why we are increasing our quarterly dividend rate by 20% and planning future share repurchases.

The growth of OnStar Services and Super Cruise further underscores our confidence. In 2025, OnStar had a record 12 million subscribers, including more than 620,000 Super Cruise subscribers, achieving nearly 80% year-over-year growth. OnStar Fleet subscriptions hit 2 million, which is 2x any other competitor. This year, we will continue to grow our Super Cruise business in North America and expand into South Korea, the Middle East and Europe. We expect our deferred revenue from software and services to be approximately $7.5 billion by the end of this year, up nearly 40% from 2025. We are also confident in the turnaround of our China business and our growing new energy vehicle portfolio. They are now about 50% of sales in China and profitable across all price points.

As we look further ahead, our annual production in the U.S. is expected to rise to an industry-leading 2 million units after we begin production of the Chevrolet Equinox in Kansas, bring the Chevrolet Blazer to Tennessee and add incremental capacity for the Cadillac Escalade and launch our next-generation full-size pickups at Orion Assembly in Michigan. We are also launching our sixth-generation small block V8 and the engineering teams are leveraging world-class virtual tools to deliver better fuel efficiency and power for our customers and faster development times. We reached our performance and emission goals in 1/3 of the time versus the prior program by conducting thousands of combustion chamber simulations while we reduced prototyping for a 20% savings in material and tooling costs.

AI, machine learning and robotics are also driving safety, quality and speed in our manufacturing plants so we can get great products and technologies into the hands of customers faster. For example, a cross-functional team developed a predictive weld quality model that has enabled us to deliver even more consistent welds and tighter control, directly improving cost and quality. We are deploying robotic systems alongside humans to make their job safer and easier to perform. For example, a robot can pick up an exhaust system and position it so a single operator can complete the installation without strain.

Our robotics and AI work will converge at Orion Assembly where plan upgrades include advanced vision systems and the installation of 2,500 robot and cobots controlled by GM design software. Then in 2028, we expect to launch our breakthrough LMR battery chemistry. LMR will help us reduce cell and pack cost by several thousand dollars. Also in 2028, we expect to launch our second generation software-defined vehicle architecture for ICE vehicles and EVs. It will unite every major system from propulsion to infotainment and safety on a single high speed compute core.

The performance upgrade includes 10x more OTA capacity and 1,000x more bandwidth, allowing our vehicles to get better, smarter and deliver more value to our customers over time. It's also an enabler for our eyes-off, hands-off driving technology. This technology and our new software architecture will both launch on the Cadillac Escalade IQ in 2028. With our Super Cruise experience, the expertise we brought in-house from Cruise and our learnings from millions of miles of fully autonomous driving, we believe we have everything we need to deliver a safe, reliable and highly capable system that customers will embrace. Safety is key to building trust in new technologies as we've demonstrated with Super Cruise.

For our eyes-off solution, we are building in redundancy with LiDAR, radar and cameras, and we will begin on highways. Finally, I want to mention that we are hosting our call today from our new global headquarters in Hudson's Detroit. This beautiful space is designed for the collaborative and tech-enabled way people work today while also saving us tens of millions of dollars annually. It's the latest example of our commitment to operate as efficiently and as profitably as we can.

Thank you. And now I'll turn the call over to Paul.

Paul Jacobson
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Mary, and welcome, everyone. Over the past several years, we've been on an incredible journey. In the face of a rapidly evolving industry and significant macro challenges, the resilience and adaptability of the GM team have been truly exceptional. These strengths have translated into consistently strong financial performance, including $12.7 billion of EBIT adjusted and $10.6 billion of adjusted automotive free cash flow in 2025, resulting in a year-end cash balance of $21.7 billion. As Mary noted, our product portfolio keeps getting better, driving market share gains of 60 basis points in 2025, while we maintain some of the lowest incentives in the entire industry. This disciplined approach has been a key contributor to nearly $25 billion of free cash flow generation over the past 2 years.

This robust cash generation enables us to execute confidently across all pillars of our capital allocation framework. Over the last 2 years, we've invested more than $20 billion in capital projects to support growth in our core business and advance our strategic priorities. Looking ahead to 2026 and 2027, we expect to invest $10 billion to $12 billion annually, including approximately $5 billion to expand U.S. manufacturing capacity for some of the highest demand vehicles and further reduce our tariff exposure. We're also proactively strengthening our balance sheet by thoughtfully managing debt maturities. In 2025, we retired $1.8 billion of debt, further enhancing our financial flexibility and reinforcing our long-term resilience.

Returning capital to shareholders remains a cornerstone of our capital strategy. In the fourth quarter, we executed $2.5 billion in open market share repurchases, retiring another 33 million shares and bringing total buybacks for the year to $6 billion. In 2025, we also distributed more than $500 million in dividends. Since announcing our accelerated share repurchase program in November 2023, we have returned $23 billion to shareholders through share repurchases. These actions have reduced our outstanding share count by more than 465 million shares or nearly 35%, leaving approximately 930 million diluted outstanding shares at year-end 2025.

Our strong execution and consistent capital returns have delivered substantial shareholder value with our stock price appreciating more than 170% since late November 2023. This performance reinforces our conviction that repurchasing GM stock at current valuation levels, which are back to historical norms but remain well below our peers, represents one of the most compelling opportunities to continue to generate long-term shareholder value. Yesterday, our Board approved a new share repurchase authorization of $6 billion and a 20% increase in our dividend to $0.18 per share, reflecting its confidence in our ability to generate strong future cash flows and underscoring our ongoing commitment to returning capital to shareholders.

Now let's turn to our fourth quarter results. Total company revenue was $45 billion, down approximately 5% year-over-year, primarily due to our disciplined approach to production and dealer inventory, including aligning EV production to demand. We also faced production constraints on the Chevrolet Trax and a year-over-year headwind from strategic decisions to end production of the Chevrolet Malibu and Cadillac XT4. The lower volume was partially offset by strong pricing across our 2026 model year lineup.

EBIT adjusted was $2.8 billion and EPS diluted adjusted was $2.51, both increasing year-over-year despite the impact of tariffs. We incurred incremental costs for alternate chip sourcing related to Nexperia totaling $100 million in Q4, and we anticipate another $100 million of pressure in Q1 2026. Hats off to our supply chain team as they did a great job finding alternatives to ensure we had no production disruptions. Adjusted automotive free cash flow was $2.8 billion, driven by higher EBIT-adjusted performance and favorable cash timing.

I want to take a moment to address tariff costs for the quarter and for the full year as well as the charges we have taken related to EVs. Through the third quarter, we incurred $2.4 billion in gross tariff costs. In the fourth quarter, we incurred another $700 million, bringing the total for the year to $3.1 billion, which was below our predicted range of $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion. When we provided updated guidance in October, we were tracking towards the low end of this range, but took a conservative approach given the dynamic trade and tariff environment. We were able to do even better based on strong execution and favorable policy developments during the quarter, including the benefit from a lower tariff rate for Korea. For the full year, we were able to offset more than 40% of these gross tariff costs through a combination of go-to-market actions, footprint adjustments and cost reduction initiatives.

Turning to our EV charges. During the third and fourth quarters, we reassessed our EV capacity and manufacturing footprint to better align with softer-than-expected consumer demand, particularly in light of recent U.S. government policy changes, including the termination of certain consumer tax incentives. As a result, in the third quarter, we recorded charges totaling $1.6 billion, including $1.2 billion of noncash impairment charges primarily related to transitioning our Orion Assembly from EV to ICE production. The remaining $0.4 billion consisted of cash charges associated with contractual cancellations and supplier settlements. In the fourth quarter, we recorded an additional $6 billion of charges. This included $1.8 billion of noncash impairments, largely driven by our decision to discontinue production of the BrightDrop electric van and to impair certain EV related assets.

The remaining $4.2 billion was primarily related to contract cancellations and supplier settlements, which will impact future cash flows. The aggregate Q3 and Q4 charges totaled $7.6 billion, of which $4.6 billion is expected to be settled in cash. In 2025, we made approximately $400 million in cash payments and expect to pay the majority of the remaining balance in 2026. Moving forward, we expect material but significantly smaller cash and noncash EV-related charges as we continue commercial negotiations with our supply base and address proposed regulatory changes to greenhouse gas emission standards. Any greenhouse gas-related charges would be noncash. It is important to note that besides BrightDrop, we have not impaired our existing retail portfolio of EVs. We are working to improve the profitability of these vehicles through new battery technologies, engineering improvements and operational efficiencies, along with a more rational EV market. As consumer adoption of EVs increases, albeit at a slower pace than previously anticipated, we expect to achieve the necessary scale to deliver EVs profitably over time.

Now let's move to the fourth quarter regional results. North America delivered EBIT adjusted of $2.2 billion and margins of 6.1%. We ended the year with 48 days of dealer inventory, which is slightly below our 50- to 60-day year-end target. This positions us well for 2026, allowing us to balance production to various demand levels. We are seeing positive trends in our warranty performance with monthly cash flows continuing to be stable. GM International, excluding China equity income, delivered EBIT adjusted of $200 million, driven by strong execution in South America and the Middle East, along with China equity income of $100 million, excluding the restructuring charge. We recorded a $600 million special item in our auto China equity income, primarily connected to prior restructuring actions.

It's important to note that these charges are not expected to require any capital from GM as the joint venture has sufficient cash to cover these costs. I want to commend our China team for executing a disciplined multiyear plan to rightsize capacity, accelerate electrification and revitalize our operations. These collective efforts have been instrumental in achieving significant milestones, including new energy vehicle sales reaching nearly 1 million units in 2025, representing more than half of the total sales in China. GM Financial also had another strong year of profitability and capital returns to GM. Fourth quarter EBT adjusted was down slightly year-over-year at $600 million. Lower lease termination gains were partially offset by higher retail yields and lower provision expense.

GM Financial's full year EBT adjusted was $2.8 billion within their guidance of $2.5 billion to $3 billion, and they paid dividends of $1.5 billion to GM. Last week, GM Financial received approval for their industrial bank application. Once launched, this bank will enable them to accept deposits, providing another source of stable and diversified funding. Over time, we also expect this to lower the cost of funds and enhance their ability to offer more competitive auto loans to customers. I want to personally thank Susan and the entire GMF team for their persistence throughout this process.

Now let's turn to our 2026 guidance, where we expect EBIT adjusted of $13 billion to $15 billion, EPS diluted adjusted of $11 to $13 per share and adjusted automotive free cash flow of $9 billion to $11 billion. Starting with tariffs, we anticipate gross tariff costs in the $3 billion to $4 billion range, slightly higher than 2025 due to an additional quarter of tariff exposure, partially offset by the reduced Korea tariff and expanded MSRP offset program. For Q1, we expect the gross tariff impact to be in the $750 million to $1 billion range, which is well below the quarterly impact in Q2 and Q3 of 2025, but more than Q4. The higher quarterly run rate in 2026 versus Q4 '25 is largely driven by the timing of tariff costs, which can be lumpy, particularly as it relates to the supply chain.

The team did a great job offsetting over 40% of our gross tariff costs in 2025 through go-to-market strategies, footprint changes and cost efficiencies. As we look ahead to 2026, we expect these cost savings to be sustained and believe there are additional actions that can help mitigate our tariff impact. For the industry, we expect total U.S. SAAR to be in the low 16 million unit range for the year. We expect North America ICE wholesale volumes to be flat to up modestly. ICE volumes this year are constrained due to portfolio shifts, including the ending of the Cadillac XT6 and some expected downtime ahead of the new Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra launches.

We anticipate a benefit of $1 billion to $1.5 billion related to the actions we've taken to rightsize our EV capacity. The benefits from both EV-related charges and substantially lower EV wholesale volumes will positively impact both mix and costs. We also expect that the temporary downtime at our Ultium Cells joint venture will result in lower production tax credits, but this impact should be largely offset by positive inventory adjustments from lower cell inventory levels. Lower production tax credits in 2026 should then represent a tailwind in 2027 as we resume normalized production. We expect North America pricing to be flat to up 0.5% as we realize the full year benefit of model year 2026 price increases. While this includes a place holder for potentially higher incentives due to the competitive environment, we are confident in our ability to maintain pricing discipline.

While some uncertainties remain in the regulatory environment, we are anticipating a benefit in the range of $500 million to $750 million, primarily related to savings from no longer having to purchase compliance credits. In addition, we are seeing positive trends in warranty costs, which are expected to deliver $1 billion benefit versus 2025. We expect an increase of around $400 million of high-margin revenue generated from the expansion of OnStar software and services, including Super Cruise.

This growth is expected to help increase deferred revenue from $5.4 billion at the end of 2025 to approximately $7.5 billion by the end of '26 further strengthening our future margin profile and long-term growth trajectory. We expect headwinds in the range of $1 billion to $1.5 billion associated with the onshoring of vehicle production to the U.S., investments to enhance supply chain resiliency and investments to support our software initiatives. While these initiatives create near-term pressure, they will increase capacity of our highly profitable full-size pickups and SUVs as well as to help further mitigate tariff costs beginning in 2027.

We also expect incremental headwinds in the range of $1 billion to $1.5 billion, driven primarily by recent trends in aluminum, copper and other key commodities as well as higher DRAM costs and unfavorable foreign exchange movements.

Turning to our regions. We expect both China and our international operations outside of China to be profitable and deliver results largely consistent with 2025. GM Financial is once again expected to deliver EBT adjusted in the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range, reflecting a stable credit environment. Importantly, as Mary noted, we believe we have a clear and achievable path back to 8% to 10% North America margins in 2026.

The midpoint of our EBIT-adjusted guidance supports this outcome, and we are confident in our ability to deliver this goal ahead of investor expectations. We are accelerating innovation and investing in advanced mobility, manufacturing technologies and robotics to chart the future. This includes expanding Super Cruise to bring hands-free driving to more vehicles and scaling high-value digital services through OnStar, further strengthening our competitive advantage and enhancing the customer experience.

In summary, we entered this year with strong momentum, a resilient balance sheet and the operational flexibility to deliver on our commitments. We remain focused on investing in long-term profitable growth while retaining the agility needed to navigate a dynamic macro and regulatory landscape, positioning GM for sustained success, not only in 2026, but well beyond.

Thank you. And with that, we'll move to the Q&A portion of the call.

