Graphic Packaging Holding Company (GPK) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Mark Connelly - Senior Vice President of Investor Strategy & Development
Michael Doss - President, CEO & Director
Stephen Scherger - Executive VP & CFO
Charles Lischer - Senior VP & Chief Accounting Officer

Conference Call Participants

Ghansham Panjabi - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
George Staphos - BofA Securities, Research Division
Matthew Roberts - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Charlie Muir-Sands - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Gabe Hajde - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Arun Viswanathan - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Mark Weintraub - Seaport Research Partners
Michael Roxland - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Anojja Shah - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to the Graphic Packaging Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mark Connelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Strategy and Development. The floor is yours.

Mark Connelly
Senior Vice President of Investor Strategy & Development

Good morning. We have with us today Mike Doss, President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Scherger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Chuck Lischer, Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. During this call, we will reference our third quarter 2025 earnings presentation available through this webcast and on our website at www.graphicpkg.com.

Today's presentation will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors identified in today's press release and in our SEC filings.

Now let me turn the call over to Mike.

Michael Doss
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Mark, and good morning and good afternoon. Thank you for joining our call today. I want to start by taking a moment to acknowledge the enormous contributions that Steve Scherger has made over the past decade as Graphic Packaging's Chief Financial Officer. As announced last month, Steve has decided to leave Graphic Packaging to take on a new challenge. He has stayed with us through this week to close the books on our third quarter, and I appreciate that. Steve was my partner in the development and execution of our business transformation from the acquisition of International Paper's consumer business and more than a dozen acquisitions to our Kalamazoo and Waco investments. His impact on the team we have built and the culture we have created at Graphic Packaging will shape our company for years to come. I will miss his counsel.

I'm pleased to introduce Chuck Lischer, who Steve hired in 2019 as our Chief Accounting Officer. Chuck will take on the new role of Interim Chief Financial Officer. Chuck has been a key member of our leadership team and involved in every major decision Steve and I have made. We are fortunate to have someone with Chuck's deep knowledge stepping in as we pivot from Vision 2025's investment to Vision 2030's free cash flow. Now let's turn to the quarter. Graphic Packaging sales were $2.2 billion. Adjusted EBITDA was $383 million, adjusted EBITDA margin was 17.5% and adjusted EPS was $0.58. While the challenges of a stretched consumer and the impact on grocery volumes is well chronicled, we are focused on what we can control. We executed well in the quarter, made progress on costs and reduced inventory.

Meanwhile, our innovation platform continues to open up new markets for paperboard packaging, once again allowing us to outperform the broader markets we serve. Turning to Slide 3. I'm pleased to announce that we produced the first commercially saleable rolled paperboard at our Waco recycled paperboard manufacturing facility on October 24. That was significantly earlier than our plan and faster even than our highly successful K2 start-up in Kalamazoo in 2022. I could not be more proud of our team, many of whom were part of our team that built our Kalamazoo K2 machine. I want to thank our contractors, and I'm incredibly grateful for the strong support we received from the Waco community from Governor Abbott and the State of Texas. Waco was Graphic Packaging's largest capital investment and extends our economic and quality advantage in recycled paperboard across all of North America.

Waco is a critical enabler for the consumer packaging we sell, improving surety of supply, reducing waste, allowing us to only offer the highest quality packaging materials and expanding the markets our recycled paperboard packaging can serve. Having Waco in our system gives us competitive advantage that will last for decades. The Waco facility sits in the Texas Triangle, which is a highly attractive location for recovered fiber sourcing given its proximity to 4 major cities. Our team also developed an internal fiber sourcing plan, which allows us to bring scrap paperboard from our packaging facilities to Waco. This is exceptionally clean and very low-cost fiber.

True circularity isn't just about the environment, done right, it's also about sound business economics. By closing the loop between our own manufacturing system scrap and Waco's recovered fiber sourcing, we dramatically reduce overall system waste while simultaneously improving our production economics. And with the inclusion of paper cups in the Recycled Materials Association's recently updated guidelines, a key strategic investment we made at Waco looks even better. We designed Waco to have the capability to process up to 15 million paper cups a day. And as cup collection ramps up, graphic packaging will play a key role in ensuring this high-value fiber source is put to good use rather than ending up as landfill.

As previously announced, the ramp-up to full production at Waco is expected to take 12 to 18 months. The start-up of Waco marks the end of our Vision 2025 transformation program. We now have everything we need, strong positions across a wide range of markets to drive top line consistency the packaging industry's best innovation team to open new markets for paperboard and an integrated packaging platform with durable, substantial long-term competitive advantage. On October 30, we formally announced that our East Angus recycled paperboard manufacturing facility will cease production, December 23. Taken together with our earlier Middletown closure and the recent closures by others, Waco will add just a couple of percent to total capacity, only about 75,000 tons more than the industry had at the start of 2025. As was the case in Kalamazoo, we do not expect the startup of Waco to materially impact recycled paperboard market balance.

Graphic Packaging has a long and consistent practice of matching our board production to our demand for our packaging. Turning to Slide 4. The pressure on the consumers is evident by the grocery volumes. Increasingly, we hear from our CPG customers that the consumer market has bifurcated. Upper income consumers are still spending, but are spending differently and more carefully. Lower income consumers continue to cut back as food prices rise further. And in the third quarter, we also saw more of our CPG customers timing their purchases as a way to manage cash, which has made order flows less predictable. In the third quarter, our volumes were down 2% year-on-year, again, outperforming most of the markets we serve. We also saw some incremental price deterioration, not so much in paperboard, but in packaging pricing. Recycled and unbleached packaging markets are in good balance, but we continue to see highly unusual competitive pressure from bleached packaging producers who normally wouldn't choose to compete directly with recycled because their costs are so much higher.

Yet we are seeing competitors offering discounts on bleached packaging that essentially matches recycled packaging pricing despite the obvious lack of profitability at that those kinds of prices apply. Given that bleached capital costs and annual sustaining capital requirements are dramatically higher, we don't believe that the situation is sustainable. With the investments we have made at Kalamazoo and Waco, we can match bleached paperboards appearance and print performance with a sheet that costs significantly less to make on equipment that requires a fraction of the capital to maintain. We believe that our investments have put us in the sweet spot for all 3 packaging substrates and that our economics and quality create a durable long-term competitive advantage. Over time, we expect our recycled paperboard to replace more expensive bleached paperboard in a range of markets.

As we discussed last quarter, we are not a meaningful participant in open market bleached paperboard. But the impact of a large imbalance in that market has been to reduce the pricing power in recycled and unbleached packaging. Recycled and unbleached are our primary markets, and both are healthy and in good balance. So this is really about margin pressure rather than market share. Looking at our markets. Food and household products were steady overall, while beverage and foodservice were weaker. Health and Beauty, which is mostly a European business for us, was again solid. Beverage promotion returned to a relatively normal pattern this year, but promotional activity for food and foodservice remains highly targeted, an approach which has not driven meaningful volume of foot traffic. Mass retail, superstores and discount grocers continue to take share from traditional grocers. That is one of the driving forces behind the surge in private label offerings, although traditional grocers have increasingly embraced store brands as well.

In the past 2 years, literally thousands of private label and store brand SKUs have been introduced and trademark data suggests the trend will continue into 2026. Meanwhile, our innovation portfolio continues to expand. Innovation is steadily opening up in new markets for our paperboard packaging from household products to protein to produce. Turning to Slide 5. The breadth and depth of our consumer staples packaging portfolio is especially important in times like these, where consumer purchasing patterns are rapidly evolving. We are in every grocery aisle in supermarkets and superstores and are a major packaging supplier to quick service restaurants. We are introducing recycled paperboard packaging to more markets and more categories, including household products and health and beauty as customers increasingly embrace our paperboard as a less expensive, more responsible choice that consumers [indiscernible].

Turning to Slide 6. Excluding the effect of FX, third quarter packaging sales were down approximately 2% year-over-year, a modest deceleration from second quarter market trends. Food results were roughly flat overall with continued uneven performance in the Americas, partially offset by strength in international, although as we have previously noted, consumers in our international markets are also feeling the stress of high prices. As in past quarters, no clear category trends are emerging. We see targeted promotion that shifts from product to product and brand to brand, but has been insufficient to drive overall volumes higher. As our customers evaluate the effectiveness of promotion, they are also developing clear insights into price points where customer purchases either grow or decline rapidly. So for example, a $0.25 price increase of $4.50 to $4.75 may not cause a big change in demand, but a $0.25 increase from $4.75 to $5 might cause a major decline in sales.

Getting a better handle on that sort of price sensitivity should help our customers as they work to reposition, resize and reformulate. In beverage, we saw a welcome return to a more normal promotional activity this summer, which helped drive soft drink multipack demand. The longer-term trend towards less beer consumption continued both in the Americas and in international markets. Keep in mind that while trends in multipack demand do track references like Nielsen over the medium term, leads and legs can vary, particularly when beverages are purchased and when they're concerned. A 12-pack, for example, will tend to be consumed more quickly if it goes directly into the refrigerator. So when you have a 2-for-1 promotion, it can be a bit harder to predict when consumers will be back to buy more. Some of the normal second quarter beer production shutdowns that typically occur around the 4th of July holiday were deferred this year and are now scheduled for the fourth quarter. The impact of that shift is difficult to predict, but represents an effort by our customers to match their own production to demand.

We serve beverage producers of all kinds and sizes with multipacks for cans, bottles and plastic. Over time, we expect to outperform the overall beverage market, both in the Americas and in our international business, thanks to our innovation portfolio and the strength of our integrated beverage packaging model. Foodservice results are broadly weaker as has been well telegraphed by the media. While affordability has been the primary challenge to foot traffic and volumes, this is also the category with the most bleached paperboard packaging and bleached packaging is where we have seen the most unusual competitive behavior, which is affecting sales as well as profitability. Our smaller international foodservice business continues to perform very well with new product innovation and strong execution driving continued volume improvement.

In household products in the Americas, we see consumers reducing purchases and shifting to private label alternatives. Our international business continues to provide a significant offset, largely driven by our product innovation. Health and beauty is a relatively small and mostly international business for us that has significant potential to grow over time in the Americas. Slide 7 highlights our 5 packaging innovation platforms. Innovation is a critical component of our strategy because our innovation team is opening up entirely new markets for paperboard packaging. In the past couple of years, our innovations have taken us into meat protein, freshly prepared food, ready meals in Europe, ground coffee and a host of markets which were traditionally dominated by plastic and foam. Innovation is why we are confident in our ability to grow faster than the QSR and CPG markets we serve.

On Slide 8, we highlight an innovation that demonstrates our market expansion. In the produce aisle and especially with small fruits and vegetables, plastic punnets are the traditional packaging standard. But while plastic punnets are cost effective, their performance and consumer appeal is mixed at best and recycling rates are low. As our customers look for better functionality and greater consumer appeal, we have developed a family of paperboard punnets, including open, top seal and clamshell designs that use up to 95% less plastic and are recyclable in most existing programs. On this slide, we highlight our ProducePack top-selling punnet. These examples are from 2 of our large store brand customers, Marks & Spencer and Tesco in the U.K. Fruits and vegetables are packed in many different ways depending on the grower, the scale and the market.

So we designed our punnets to work on the same automated lines as plastic punnets and minimize switching costs and to be superior plastic alternatives where more handling is involved. Our clamshell design, for example, serves a handpacked market. But unlike the plastic clamshell, ours can be locked into a closed position with one hand, improving labor efficiency. When we began this project, our team studied the science of food ripening and developed containers that have a meaningfully positive impact on how long some fruits and vegetables stay fresh. In cherry tomatoes, for example, a third party has verified an increase in shelf life of more than 3 days, a really big advantage for highly perishable product. Other tests being demonstrated that our paperboard punnets slowed the mold growth compared to plastic alternatives. Our punnets also offer outstanding visibility inside now, something you can't get with plastic. That gives the growers and retailers a way to increase their brand marketing impact to distinguish more easily between products and quality levels and to educate consumers about what they are buying.

Our paperboard punnets, along with other new innovations like our PaperSeal line are a perfect fit with today's trends towards healthier eating and the growing use of GLP-1. And they are great examples of just how effectively Graphic Packaging moves with the consumer. Turning to Slide 9. Our vision for Graphic Packaging is clear, and my confidence in our business model remains strong. Innovation, culture and the commitment to making packaging that is better for the planet are fundamental to driving best-in-class results for our customers and for all of our stakeholders. With Waco now ramping up, we have everything we need to reach our Vision 2030 goals. And that means we can turn our full attention to execution and driving cash flow. On Slide 10, we summarize our financial results. I've already described the big drivers of sales and margin performance. Slide 11 highlights the still challenging consumer packaging environment on the left and the strength of our business model and execution on the right.

Delivering margin improvement in the face of sequential price volume pressure is a testament to the strength of our model and the value we bring to our customers. While we are not satisfied with the current results, we are confident that we can meaningfully improve margins as demand and competitive behavior normalize. Turning to Slide 12. We used $150 million to repurchase approximately [ 6.8 million ] of the company's outstanding shares year-to-date, reducing shares outstanding by 2.3% in 2025 after a similar reduction in 2024. We have repurchased approximately 24% of the company since 2018. Turning to the outlook on Slide 13. We have modestly revised our guidance to reflect performance to date and our best view of what's been an increasingly difficult to predict volume outlook. In this environment, we are focused on the things we can control, and that includes cost and inventory. We are assessing opportunities to further reduce SG&A and finding other opportunities to reduce costs, which I believe will further cement our significant efficiency and margin advantage over competitors.

You saw us take action to reduce inventory in the second and third quarters, and we will continue to drive inventory out of our system as we reoptimize around Waco and Kalamazoo. In the fourth quarter, we will take further action to balance production with customer demand, which we expect to have approximately a $15 million impact on EBITDA. These decisions are intended to protect our margin profile and to protect our volume. At a time when competitors are running for cash and signing contracts that we believe carry margins well below the cost of capital, we are focused on protecting our industry-leading margins and protecting share where we are the best and most logical supplier in the medium and long term.

We are using this period of unusual competitive behavior to align our order books with customers who understand the durable competitive advantages that we have in innovation, cost, efficiency and quality. Our year-end leverage target is up modestly. That is mainly a function of the change in our EBITDA expectations as well as our decision to take advantage of the dislocation in our share price with additional share repurchases in the third quarter.

Graphic Packaging has doubled in sales and EBITDA since 2017 and maintaining prudent debt levels has always been a major factor in the company's success. With our Waco investment nearing completion, we expect a significant free cash flow inflection and we will prioritize deleveraging alongside our other uses of cash in 2026 and beyond. In keeping with our commitment to prudent use of leverage and maintaining financial flexibility, we made an important financing transaction in October. As detailed in a recent 8-K, we've entered into a $400 million delayed draw term loan, which will be used to repay the bonds maturing in April of 2026. This loan has a floating rate 35 basis points lower than our revolver and matures in June of 2027. This new financing addresses the upcoming bond maturity while giving us more time to decide whether longer-term financing is needed. Given the substantial cash flow we expect to generate in 2026 and beyond, the flexibility of prepayable debt is particularly attractive now.

Our current cost of debt is approximately 4.5%. As a reminder, with the Waco investment effectively complete, our capital spending will decline significantly to approximately 5% of sales. Capital spending is the largest driver of our expected cash flow inflection. With the team we now have in place and the levers we have to pull, I'm confident in our ability to generate our targeted $700 million to $800 million of free cash flow in 2026.

Let me be very clear about this. We can't control demand and lately, we can't predict it any better than our customers or our competitors can. But Graphic Packaging is at a very different place today. With Waco complete, we have the industry's best assets and best cost position. And we have far greater control over our ability to generate free cash flow than we did a year ago. While competitors are restructuring spending and lately making short-term deals that don't generate cost of capital returns, Graphic Packaging continues to focus on delivering results for our customers and our stockholders. We have everything we need, and the next 5 years are about innovation, execution and free cash flow.

Graphic Packaging is in a better place to create lasting value for our stockholders than ever before. In the appendix that begins with Slide 15, you'll find some additional information you may find helpful. That concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, let's begin with Q&A.