The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 15, 2026 9:30 AM EST

Company Participants

David Solomon - Chairman & CEO
Denis Coleman - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Glenn Schorr - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Ebrahim Poonawala - BofA Securities, Research Division
L. Erika Penala - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Betsy Graseck - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Brennan Hawken - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Michael Mayo - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Steven Chubak - Wolfe Research, LLC
Daniel Fannon - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Matthew O'Connor - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Christopher McGratty - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Saul Martinez - HSBC Global Investment Research

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Katie, and I will be your conference facilitator today. I would like to welcome everyone to the Goldman Sachs Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. On behalf of Goldman Sachs, I will begin the call with the following disclaimer. The earnings presentation can be found on the Investor Relations page of the Goldman Sachs website and contains information on forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures. This audio cast is copyrighted material of Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and may not be duplicated, reproduced or rebroadcast without consent.

This call is being recorded today, January 15, 2026. I will now turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, David Solomon; and Chief Financial Officer, Denis Coleman. Thank you. Mr. Solomon, you may begin your conference.

David Solomon
Chairman & CEO

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone. Thank you all for joining us. I'm very pleased with our strong performance in the fourth quarter, where we generated earnings per share of $14.01, an ROE of 16% and an ROTE of 17.1%. For the full year, we delivered earnings per share of $51.32, a 27% increase versus last year, an ROE of 15% and an ROTE of 16%. Before we review our financials in detail, I want to discuss our longer-term performance and provide an update to you on our strategy.

Beginning on Page 1. In 2020, we held the firm's first Investor Day and laid out a clear and comprehensive strategy to grow and strengthen the firm. We also set a number of targets so we would be held accountable for our progress. Since then, guided by our purpose to be the most exceptional financial institution in the world, supported by our core values of client service, integrity, partnership and excellence, we continue to successfully execute on this strategy. We increased firm-wide revenues by roughly 60%. We grew EPS by 144%. We improved our returns by 500 basis points. And we delivered a total shareholder return of over 340%, the most of our peer group over this time frame.

As you can see on Page 2, we achieved this while also materially improving the risk profile of the firm and enhancing the resilience of our earnings. We have doubled our more durable revenues. We have reduced historical principal investments by over 90%, from roughly $64 billion down to $6 billion. The results of these multiyear efforts to scale capital-light businesses and reduce our capital intensity were reflected in our most recent CCAR stress test, where we've driven a 320 basis point improvement in our stress capital buffer. All in, we have strengthened and grown the firm through a relentless focus on delivering excellence to our clients.

Turning to Page 3. I want to highlight our strong execution in 2025. Our success is fueled by our world-class interconnected franchises that deliver One Goldman Sachs to our clients around the globe. In Global Banking & Markets, we maintained our position as the #1 M&A adviser in investment banking and #1 equities franchise alongside our leading position in FICC. We improved our standing with the top 150 clients in these businesses, which has contributed to 350 basis points of wallet share gains in GBM since 2019. We significantly increased our more durable FICC and equity financing revenues, which grew to a new record of $11.4 billion for the year and generated returns in excess of 16% in the segment.

In Asset & Wealth Management, we are a top 5 active asset manager, a leading alternatives franchise and a premier ultra-high net worth wealth manager. We've consistently grown more durable management other fees in private banking and lending revenues, which were both records in 2025, and also raised a record $115 billion in alternatives. Our strong execution has led to improvement in both the margins and the returns in this segment. Importantly, we're taking the final steps needed to narrow our strategic focus. In addition to completing the transition of the General Motors credit card program last August, last week, we announced an agreement to transition the Apple Card portfolio.

Let's turn to Page 4 for a deeper dive on our franchises, starting with investment banking, where we have been the #1 M&A adviser for 23 consecutive years. Very few if any service businesses of our size can claim long-standing leadership to this degree. This is a reflection of the strength of our client relationships as well as the quality of our people and the advice and execution capabilities they bring to our clients. Since 2020, we've generated an incremental $5 billion in advisory revenues versus the #2 competitor. And in 2025 alone, we've advised on more than $1.6 trillion of announced M&A transaction volumes, over $250 billion ahead of the next closest peer. Over the last year, we've seen high levels of client engagement across our investment banking franchise, and we expect the activity to accelerate in 2026.

Our outlook is supported by a number of catalysts: corporate focus on strategically positioning scale and innovation; the tremendous public and private capital fueling growth in AI; as well as a strong pickup in sponsor activity. Given our best-in-class sponsor franchise, we are especially well positioned to help sponsors deploy the $1 trillion of dry powder they hold and monetize the roughly $4 trillion of value across their portfolio companies. Increased levels of engagement are reflected in our backlog, which stands at its highest level in 4 years.

M&A transactions often kick off a flywheel of activity across our entire franchise, whether it's acquisition financing, hedging activity, secondary market making or investing opportunities for our AWM clients, it is unquestionable that there is a significant multiplier effect. And as the #1 adviser for over 2 decades, we are uniquely positioned to capture the significant forward opportunity.

Moving to Page 5. Another growth engine for GBM has been our leading origination and financing businesses. Last year, we announced the creation of the Capital Solutions Group, formalizing a hub to provide our clients a comprehensive suite of financing origination, structuring and risk management offerings across both public and private markets. On the public side, we are optimistic about the outlook for equity and debt underwriting, particularly amid the resurgence in the IPO market and a higher acquisition finance-related activity where we have a long-standing track record and leading market positions.

On the private side, our ability to structure holistic solutions has led to a number of asset-backed financings across infrastructure, transportation and data centers, supported by strong origination, structuring, the feed opportunities across our client franchise and our asset management platform. These capabilities have supported our deliberate strategy to grow our more durable financing revenues, providing a ballast to our results and comprising 37% of total FICC and equity revenues in 2025. Since 2021, these have increased at a 17% CAGR. And with risk management always top of mind, we still expect to prudently drive growth from here.

On Page 6, we illustrate the strength and resilience of the FICC and equities intermediation businesses, we have demonstrated -- where we have a demonstrated ability to deliver strong results in a broad array of market environments. While client activity levels in different asset classes ebb and flow in any given quarter, our overall results have been remarkably consistent over time. This reflects the breadth and diversification of these businesses, which have been bolstered by our share gains.

We see even more opportunities to further strengthen our franchise. This includes investing to improve our market-making capabilities and broaden offerings for active and passive ETF issuers. In addition, we are working to close share gaps with key client segments, including insurers, wealth managers and RIAs, as well as in certain product areas like corporate derivatives. Geographically, we are looking to close the share gap in Asia, in part by focusing on these areas.

Turning to Page 7. Our scaled Asset & Wealth Management business has $3.6 trillion in assets under supervision with global breadth and depth across products and solutions. We've grown more durable revenues across management and other fees in private banking and lending at a 12% CAGR, ahead of our target, and we continue to see significant opportunities across wealth management, alternatives and solutions. We have also improved our AWM margins and returns and given our growth outlook across these businesses, we are setting new targets. We are increasing our pretax margin to 30% -- pretax margin target to 30%, which will help drive high-teen returns in AWM over the medium term.

Let's dive deeper into our key growth opportunities, starting with wealth management on Page 8. Over the last 50 years, we have built a premier franchise with $1.9 trillion in client assets that is centered around meeting the distinct investing, planning and borrowing needs of the ultra-high net worth individuals, family offices, endowments and foundations. Over the last 5 years, we drove long-term fee-based inflows at an annual pace of 6% and grew wealth management revenues at a CAGR of 11%. And we expect further growth from here. Specifically, we are broadening our client base by increasing the number of advisers and content specialists globally. We are expanding our loan product offerings in line with client demand.

We are enhancing alternative investment offerings to facilitate clients moving closer to their optimal target allocations, and continuing -- we are continuing elevating the overall client experience, including via enhanced digital offerings and more expansive thought leadership engagements that lever the convening power of Goldman Sachs. To sharpen our focus on future growth in wealth management, we are introducing a new target of 5% long-term fee-based net inflows annually across the platform.

On Page 9, we highlight our other key growth opportunities in Asset & Wealth Management: alternatives and solutions. We have a leading alternatives platform where we've raised $438 billion since our 2020 Investor Day, and we have grown alternatives management and other fees to a record $2.4 billion. We continue to scale our flagship fund programs while concurrently developing new strategies. Given our success in strengthening and growing our alternative platforms, we believe we can raise between $75 million and $100 billion annually on a sustainable basis. As these funds continue to be deployed, we expect double-digit growth in alternative management and other fees. We expect fee-paying alternative assets under supervision to reach $750 billion by 2030. This further supports our existing target of generating $1 billion in incentive fees annually.

We are also pleased with the progress across our solutions business, where we see secular growth in demand for our products and services. We are the #1 outsourced CIO manager in the U.S., providing clients a one-stop shop for their investment needs: advice, portfolio construction, risk management and hedging. And we've run significant global mandates this year from firms including Eli Lilly and Shell. We are also the #1 separately managed account platform and the second largest insurance solutions provider.

Looking forward, we see continued opportunities for growth, including the third-party wealth in the context of alternatives offerings, ETFs and customized solutions like direct indexing. In addition, we are expanding our capabilities in the retirement channel via partnerships, further deepening our strong relationships with insurers and enhancing our offerings for institutional clients, including sovereign wealth funds.

Turning to Page 10. Building on our strong organic growth, we are accelerating our growth trajectory in Asset & Wealth Management through our recent strategic partnerships and acquisitions. Our collaboration with T. Rowe Price will deliver a range of public private market solutions for retirement and wealth investors. Last month, we announced the launch of co-branded model portfolios, the first of 4 planned product offerings. We recently closed the acquisition of Industry Ventures, a venture capital platform that adds an attractive technology investment capability to our market-leading secondaries investing franchise XIG, where we now have over $500 billion in assets under supervision. Most recently, we announced the acquisition of Innovator, which significantly scales our businesses to be in the top 10 of active ETF providers globally, particularly in the fast-growing outcome-based ETF segment. While the bar for transformational M&A remains very high, we will continue to look for ways to accelerate growth in Asset & Wealth Management.

Turning to Page 11. We have a long history of prudent and dynamic capital management, and our philosophy remains unchanged. We prioritize investing across our client franchises at attractive returns, sustainably growing our dividend and returning excess capital to shareholders in the form of buybacks. We see meaningful opportunities to deploy capital across our franchise. This includes leaning into acquisition financing as M&A activity accelerates, supporting growth in equities and FICC financing and increasing lending to our ultra high net worth clients.

That said, given our strong earnings generation capability and excess capital position, we also have capacity to return more capital to shareholders. Today, we are announcing a $0.50 increase in our quarterly dividend to $4.50, representing a 50% increase from a year ago. In addition, we have $32 billion of remaining buyback capacity under our current share repurchase authorization. And while we are mindful of our current stock price, we will remain dynamic in executing repurchases.

Turning to Page 12. As we continue to grow the firm and strategically deploy our balance sheet to support client activity, our unwavering focus remains on maintaining a disciplined risk management framework and robust standards. We've been on a multiyear journey to diversify our funding footprint, including building strategic deposit-raising channels such as private banking, markets and transaction banking. This has significantly improved our funding structure. Our deposits have grown to $501 billion and now represent roughly 40% of our total funding. We continue to optimize activity in our bank equity, which held 35% of firm-wide assets at year-end versus 25% at the time of our first Investor Day.

Overall, this progress underscores our commitment to the diversification and resiliency of our funding profile, which has improved our funding costs and our financial flexibility. All in, our robust capital position, diversified funding mix, dynamic liquidity management and strong risk discipline are foundational to the strength and stability of our balance sheet, allowing us to meet the evolving demands of our clients.

Moving to Page 13. Last quarter, we announced the One Goldman Sachs 3.0 -- we announced the launch of One Goldman Sachs 3.0, our new operating model propelled by AI. We are excited to embark on this effort, starting with 6 work streams we identified as ripe for disruption. Our people have begun thorough assessments of opportunities for efficiency, and we will then invest to reengineer these processes from the ground up. We will be measuring and driving accountability, and we will update you over the coming year with additional details regarding these metrics.

Let's turn to Page 14. The exceptional service we provide our clients is a direct result of our people, who are our most important assets. Our client franchise is powered by our best-in-class talent and culture, and it is critical that we continue to invest in them. Goldman Sachs is an aspirational brand around the globe, which allows us to attract quality talent at all levels. As an example, in 2025, we had over 1.1 million experienced hire applications, a 33% increase from last year. And in our summer internship program, we maintained a selection rate of less than 1%.

Many of the individuals will have long careers at the firm, exemplified by the fact that roughly 45% of our partners started as campus hires. And while some leave for opportunities elsewhere, these firms often become important clients to Goldman Sachs. Today, more than 650 of our alumni are in C-suite roles at companies with either a market cap greater than $1 billion or assets under management greater than $5 billion.

On Page 15, we outlined our firm-wide through-the-cycle targets. Given the successful execution against our strategic priorities, we are confident that we will continue to deliver on these, and in the near term, we believe there are catalysts that position us to exceed our return targets. We have the #1 M&A advisory -- we are the #1 M&A adviser within our leading Global Banking & Markets franchise that is poised to capitalize on a cyclical upswing in investment banking activity, a scaled Asset & Wealth Management business with higher margin and return targets and clear opportunities for future growth, and tailwinds from a more balanced regulatory regime.

In closing, I am incredibly proud of what we have delivered and I'm confident that we will continue to serve our clients with excellence and drive strong returns for our shareholders. Let me now turn it over to Denis to cover our financial results in more detail.

Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, David, and good morning. Let's start with our results on Page 16 of the presentation. In the fourth quarter, we generated revenues of $13.5 billion, earnings per share of $14.01, an ROE of 16% and an ROTE of 17.1%. For the full year, we delivered earnings per share of $51.32, a 27% increase versus last year; an ROE of 15% and an ROTE of 16%, improving 230 and 250 basis points, respectively, compared to 2024.

As David mentioned, we announced an agreement to transition the Apple Card portfolio. For the quarter, the transition had a net positive impact of $0.46 to EPS and 50 basis points to ROE as a $2.3 billion revenue reduction was more than offset by a $2.5 billion reserve release upon moving the portfolio to held for sale. Given that we are taking our final steps to narrow our strategic focus, you will have seen we implemented minor organizational changes and made corresponding updates to our segments, which are incorporated in our earnings presentation today.

Turning to results by segment. Starting on Page 18, Global Banking & Markets produced record revenues of $41.5 billion for the year, up 18% amid broad-based strength versus last year. In the fourth quarter, investment banking fees of $2.6 billion rose 25% year-over-year driven by increases in each of advisory, debt underwriting and equity underwriting. For 2025, we maintained our #1 position in the league tables for announced and completed M&A and also ranked first in leverage lending. We ranked third in equity underwriting and second in common stock offerings, convertibles and high-yield offerings.

Even with very strong accruals in the fourth quarter, our investment banking backlog rose for a seventh consecutive quarter to a 4-year high, primarily driven by advisers. As David mentioned, we are optimistic on the investment banking outlook for 2026 and the multiplier effect this activity has across our franchise. FICC net revenues were $3.1 billion in the quarter, up 12% year-over-year. In intermediation, the 15% year-over-year increase was driven by rates and commodities. And in financing, revenues rose 7% to a new record on better results within mortgages and structured lending.

Equities net revenues were $4.3 billion in the quarter. Equities intermediation revenues were $2.2 billion, up 11% year-over-year on better performance in derivatives. Equities financing results hit a quarterly record of $2.1 billion, up 42% versus the prior year amid record average balances in prime. For the full year, total equities net revenues were a record $16.5 billion, surpassing last year's record by over $3 billion, helped by the multiyear investments we've made in this business.

Moving to Asset & Wealth Management on Page 20. For 2025, revenues were $16.7 billion and our pretax margin was 25%, segment ROE for the year was 12.5% and in the mid-teens when adjusted for the 230 basis points impact from HPI and its related equity as well as the FDIC special assessment phase. In the quarter, management and other fees were a record $3.1 billion, up 5% sequentially and 10% year-over-year. Private Banking and lending revenues rose 5% year-over-year to $776 million as higher results from lending and deposits related to wealth management clients were partially offset by NIM compression in the Marcus deposits portfolio. Incentive fees for the quarter were $181 million, bringing our full year incentive fees to $489 million, up 24% versus the prior year. We expect to make further progress in 2026 towards our annual target of $1 billion.

Now moving to Page 21. Total assets under supervision ended the quarter at a record $3.6 trillion, driven by $66 billion of long-term fee-based net inflows across asset classes and $50 billion of liquidity inflows. In conjunction with our new long-term fee-based inflow target in wealth management, we are providing enhanced disclosures outlining inflows and long-term AUS by channel.

Turning to Page 22 on alternatives. Alternative AUS totaled $420 billion at the end of the fourth quarter, driving $645 million in management and other fees. Gross third-party fundraising was $45 billion in the fourth quarter and $115 billion for the year.

Moving to Page 24. Our total loan portfolio at quarter-end was $238 billion, up sequentially, reflecting higher collateralized lending balances. Provision for credit losses reflected a net benefit of $2.1 billion, including the previously mentioned reserve release associated with the Apple Card portfolio.

Let's turn to expenses on Page 25. Total operating expenses for the year were $37.5 billion. Compensation expenses were $18.9 billion, that included $250 million of severance costs, driving a full year compensation ratio net of provisions of 31.8%. Full year noncompensation costs of $18.6 billion were up 9% year-over-year, driven primarily by higher transaction-based activity. While the operating environment for our businesses continues to improve, we remain committed to our key strategic priority of operating more efficiently and are maintaining a rigorous focus on advancing our productivity and efficiency initiatives as part of One Goldman Sachs 3.0. Our effective tax rate for 2025 was 21.4%. For 2026, we expect a tax rate of approximately 20%.

Next, capital on Slide 26. Our common equity Tier 1 ratio was 14.4% at the end of the fourth quarter under the standardized approach. In the fourth quarter, we returned approximately $4.2 billion to common shareholders, including common stock repurchases of $3 billion and dividends of $1.2 billion.

In conclusion, our strong performance this year reflects the strength of our client franchise and our multiyear execution on our strategic priorities. We see a highly constructive setup for 2026 as the improving investment banking environment and our deep client connectivity position us to capture significant opportunities across the entire firm. At the same time, we remain mindful that the operating environment can shift quickly. Economic growth, policy uncertainty, geopolitical developments and market volatility are factors we continue to monitor closely. And as always, disciplined risk management will remain central to how we serve clients and allocate resources. Even so, with solid momentum and growth opportunities across our businesses, we are optimistic on the forward outlook for Goldman Sachs and remain confident in our ability to deliver for clients and drive strong returns for shareholders.

With that, we will now open up the line for questions.

