Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (HBAN) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Eric Wasserstrom - Executive VP & Head of Investor Relations
Stephen Steinour - Chairman, President & CEO
Brantley Standridge - Senior EVP and President of Consumer & Regional Banking
Zachary Wasserman - CFO & Senior EVP

Conference Call Participants

L. Erika Penala - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jon Arfstrom - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Kenneth Usdin - Bernstein Autonomous LLP
Matthew O'Connor - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Manan Gosalia - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Derek Gonda - Wolfe Research, LLC
Christopher McGratty - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Brian Foran - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Ebrahim Poonawala - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Huntington Bancshares Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Eric Wasserstrom, Director of Investor Relations. Eric, please go ahead.

Eric Wasserstrom
Executive VP & Head of Investor Relations

Thank you. Good morning, and welcome, everyone, to our fourth quarter call. Our presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; Brant Standridge, our President of Consumer & Regional Banking; and Zach Wasserman, Chief Financial Officer; Brendan Lawlor, Chief Credit Officer, will join us for the Q&A.

Earnings documents, which include our forward-looking statements disclaimer and non-GAAP information, and copies of the slides we'll be reviewing today are available on the Investor Relations section of our website, which is www.ir.huntington.com. As a reminder, this call is being recorded, and a replay will be available starting about 1 hour after the close of the call.

With that, let me now turn it over to Steve.

Stephen Steinour
Chairman, President & CEO

Thanks, Eric. Good morning, and thank you for joining us. Beginning on Slide 3, as we enter 2026, the year of Huntington's 160th anniversary, it's a moment of pride, but even more a moment of anticipation. Our heritage and deeply rooted values continue to guide us, yet it's the opportunity ahead that energizes us. We're focused on becoming the country's leading people-first, customer-centered bank, and that ambition is taking shape across the franchise. Nearly every part of Huntington is performing at a high level, creating powerful momentum as we look to the future.

We've developed a differentiated operating model. Beginning next month, our consumer and regional bank franchise will have a presence in 21 states, many of the fastest-growing in the country. Our local delivery of national capabilities is a franchise-defining competitive advantage. We also have a leading national commercial bank, which includes the fifth largest equipment finance lender in the nation, 15 unique specialty finance verticals as well as an expanding set of capital markets capabilities.

These functions make us a premier provider to companies ranging from small and middle market businesses to large corporate entities. Our approach is entirely customer-centric. Our business lines lead with advice and guidance, deliver award-winning customer service and are supported by top-tier digital capabilities. And we adhere to our aggregate moderate to low-risk profile.

In summary, our vision and values guide how our colleagues support our customers. These attributes, combined with our scalable business model and recent positioning in the most attractive states will enable growth far into the future.

Slide 4 illustrates the core components of our model and how they drove excellent full year results for 2025. We have activated a flywheel of value creation in which our operating model drives sustainable high growth, enabling us to accelerate reinvestment and strengthening our competitive advantage. In '25, this model delivered truly outstanding results, 11% revenue growth, 16% adjusted EPS growth, 290 basis points of positive operating leverage and strong credit performance. All of this drove powerful capital generation.

Slide 5 summarizes our key messages. First, our focused execution is generating significant organic growth. Second, we have proven expertise in integrating new partner banks. And third, we're delivering exceptional profitability and value creation to our shareholders. We are driving outstanding revenue, earnings, tangible book value growth and returns while investing for growth in the years ahead.

As shown on Slide 6, our organic growth engine remains exceptionally strong. We delivered another year of significant above-peer cumulative organic loan and deposit growth. And as Zach will talk to in a moment, our value-added fee services are showing a similar trend. These outcomes reflect how our teams are executing with discipline across all of our customer segments. This quarter, we delivered strong growth in primary bank relationships, up 4% year-over-year in Consumer Banking and 7% in Business Banking. We are focused on deepening customer relationships and expanding wallet share while maintaining diversified portfolios.

Slide 7 highlights some of the strategic investments we made in 2025 that accelerate our flywheel and enhance our long-term growth trajectory. We continued our branch build-out in North and South Carolina and expanded our middle market banking in Texas. We added new commercial verticals and the Veritex and Cadence partnerships augment our scale and density in states that are projected to grow roughly 30% faster than the national average.

We also added to our platform and capabilities. With the addition of TM Capital and Janney Capital Markets, we expanded the breadth of our financial advisory as well as increased our categories of fixed income trading. Additionally, we added functionalities and services within our commercial payments platform. We executed several integrated partnerships to deliver new fintech solutions for our consumer and small business customers, and we continued our investment in industry-leading digital capabilities. These initiatives expand the breadth of customers we serve, deepen our relationships and help accelerate our fee revenue growth.

In summary, 2025 was an extraordinary year for Huntington. Our outstanding financial results reflect the substantial investments we've made in our capabilities over the past several years, and we intend to continue investing across all elements of our franchise going forward. These investments and our recent partnerships position us to sustain strong growth well into the future.

With that, let me turn it over to Brant to share some updates on the partnership integrations.

Brantley Standridge
Senior EVP and President of Consumer & Regional Banking

All right. Thank you, Steve. Starting on Slide 8, I want to share our differentiated and a proven approach to partnerships. Our approach is collaborative and transparent, designed to align around our common objectives, creating a strong foundation for long-term value creation. We're able to quickly identify and engage the leaders and make thoughtful decisions around the talent of the combined organization. Our objective is to create a welcoming environment for our new colleagues.

We work with rigor and speed, mobilizing dedicated teams to migrate our partners' entire organization to Huntington platforms. We thoughtfully sequence the activities to minimize customer disruption and operational risk. We found that this approach creates an experience that is as frictionless as possible for both colleagues and customers. We are also intentional about approaching key customer product migrations with a people-first white glove process. We actually like to call it the green glove process. We will quickly deploy the full suite of Huntington capabilities, including products, balance sheet capacity, value-added services and digital capabilities. This approach for our new customer-facing colleagues enables them to stay engaged with their customers throughout the entire process, expanding their existing relationships and growing new ones.

For their customers, it ensures continuity of service while gaining exposure to the expanded set of capabilities we can offer. This approach drives economic value. By empowering and engaging our partners, being thoughtful and focused in our talent management and retention efforts, deploying the full breadth of our capabilities, developing deeper lending relationships and value-added services and moving quickly to migrate systems, we're able to realize substantial cost and revenue synergies.

Turning to Slide 9. Let me give you an update on how we've applied this approach to our partnerships with Veritex and Cadence. We've spent extensive time in the market with our new colleagues, aligning the local leadership structure and demonstrating our culture. For example, with Cadence, we undertook a 22-city tour right after the announcement to get to know our new colleagues and learn about their customers and the markets they serve. We undertook similar meetings with Veritex and have frequent senior leader connectivity and end-market engagement. We could not be more excited to welcome these new colleagues to Huntington. Engagement with the leadership and colleagues of our partners is fundamental to our ability to execute integration activities quickly and effectively and get to the critical focus of value creation.

We have undertaken a thoughtful approach to our combined organization's talent decisioning with a lot of input from the Cadence management team and completed this work well in advance of closing. This creates certainty for our new colleagues and provides immediate line of sight to a large percentage of our cost synergies. We've made significant progress on systems integration. For Veritex, we substantially completed this process last weekend. This concludes what has been an extremely efficient and well-executed conversion that's only taken 187 days since announcement. We can say with confidence that Veritex is now integrated into Huntington.

For Cadence, we're already advanced in our product and data mapping and expect systems migration to occur midyear. This would also represent a highly expedited time frame. Because of these actions, we are already realizing our targeted cost synergies from Veritex, which we expect to be fully included in our run rate by the second quarter. For Cadence, we expect to begin realizing the identified cost benefits immediately upon closing and reach the full run rate in the fourth quarter of this year.

As we deploy the full Huntington franchise in our new markets, we expect to begin benefiting from revenue synergies. This is already the case at Veritex, and we expect this to accelerate now that we are operating on the Huntington platform and our new colleagues have access to the full array of our product platform and capabilities. We would expect a similar pattern at Cadence with some revenue synergies achieved early after close and acceleration in the second half of the year and into 2027 following the systems migration.

We are excited about how these 2 partnerships will springboard our growth in Texas and across a number of new markets for us. We see extensive opportunities in these areas and across the totality of our expanded footprint, and we intend to invest to drive market growth, density and share of customers' wallet.

With that, let me turn it over to Zach to discuss the quarter's financial results in detail.

Zachary Wasserman
CFO & Senior EVP

Thank you, Brant, and good morning, everyone.

Beginning on Slide 11, I'll cover our financial performance. We delivered exceptional profitability in the fourth quarter and for the full year of 2025, supported by strong organic loan and deposit growth, expanding fee revenues, improving margins, positive operating leverage and excellent credit. For the quarter, earnings per common share was $0.30. On an adjusted basis, excluding acquisition-related expenses and other notable items, EPS was $0.37, up 9% year-over-year. I'll review the drivers of this performance in detail on the next several pages.

Turning to Slide 11. Average loans grew 14.4% year-over-year. Excluding the addition of the Veritex portfolio, average loans grew $10.9 billion or 8.6% year-over-year. This growth was well balanced between core and new initiatives. New initiatives accounted for $1.8 billion in the period and contributed nearly half of the total organic loan growth for the year. Key contributors included our organic expansion into Texas and North and South Carolina, as well as strong performance in our funds finance and financial institutions group commercial verticals. Of the remaining $1.4 billion in loan growth in the fourth quarter from the core, we delivered $500 million from corporate and specialty banking, $400 million from regional banking, $400 million from auto, $400 million from floorplan businesses and $200 million from commercial real estate. These gains were partially offset by a $200 million decline in equipment leasing, a $200 million decline in residential real estate balances and a seasonal decline of $100 million in RV/Marine loans.

All told, in 2025, we generated organic loan growth of $10.1 billion, which exceeded the $9.5 billion of loans added through our Veritex partnership. This performance underscores the exceptional execution by our colleagues across the company. The businesses are firing on all cylinders, and our teams continue to deliver outstanding organic growth.

Turning to deposits on Slide 12. Average deposits increased 5.1% quarter-over-quarter and 8.6% year-over-year. On an end-of-period basis, excluding Veritex, core deposits grew $5.5 billion year-over-year or 3.4%. We continue to drive strong volume growth while maintaining disciplined pricing throughout the rate cycle, resulting in a 35% cycle-to-date down beta. This performance is enabled by our sustained focus on growing primary banking relationships across both the Consumer and Commercial segments.

Veritex deposits contributed meaningfully to this quarter's growth, while we optimized select acquired funding categories as planned. Together, these dynamics underscore the depth and quality of our relationship-oriented deposit gathering capabilities and the effectiveness of our funding strategy. We continue to execute well on our down beta plan. Similar to the third quarter, we quickly implemented actions after the Fed rate reduction in December to achieve a 40% down beta in the last 2 weeks of the fourth quarter. The deposit environment remains competitive. However, our approach to optimizing volume growth and pricing is working. Our goal remains to maximize revenue growth and ensure robust core funding for our continued strong organic loan growth. We will continue to manage our asset yields and funding costs to optimize this outcome.

On to Slide 13. Our NII dollar growth and margin expansion continued to demonstrate powerful momentum. During the quarter, we drove $86 million or 5.6% sequential growth in net interest income. This represents over 14% growth on a year-over-year basis. Net interest margin was 3.15% for the fourth quarter, up 2 basis points from the prior quarter and aligned to our outlook. This is largely driven by contributions from Veritex's core NIM. Expanding on that for a moment, as we've noted, Veritex closed in October, and the final rate marks and detailed loan-level accretion schedule was updated at that time. This update resulted in a modest reduction in expected PAA and modest accretion to tangible book value, excluding onetime costs. The updated schedule is noted in the appendix of the presentation for your reference.

Moving to fee income on Slide 14. Our fee businesses were strong across virtually every area. Year-over-year, payments grew 5%. Commercial payment revenues continue to be the primary engine of this growth, up 8% year-over-year. Wealth management grew 10%. Adjusted for the sale of a portion of our corporate institutional custody and trust business last quarter, it grew 16%. This was powered by continued household acquisition and assets under management net inflows.

Capital markets performed well, delivering its second strongest revenue quarter of all time, trailing only the fourth quarter of 2024. Some advisory deals did push from the fourth quarter to close early in 2026, and so our first quarter is off to a very good start. Loan and deposit fees are up over 20%, driven by strong loan commitment fees. Based on our solid commercial lending pipelines, we expect this trend to continue over the next several quarters. Clearly, momentum in the fee businesses remains strong, and we anticipate broad-based growth going forward. On the next slide, I'll step back for just a moment to reflect on the multiyear trajectory of these businesses.

Turning to Slide 15. On a full year basis, our fee income businesses have been growing at a steady high single-digit CAGR since 2023, and we see this CAGR as sustainable over our long-term planning horizon. As we've highlighted many times, we view 3 businesses: payments, wealth management, and capital markets as having long-term strategic growth opportunities. The financial performance of these businesses validates our strategy, which is focused on expanding where we believe we can offer these value-added services to our customers in a manner that enhances our relationship and meets their needs.

Moving to expenses on Slide 16. On a core basis, excluding onetime costs and the impact of absorbing Veritex's expense base, Huntington's operating expenses were up just $7 million sequentially or just about 1/2 of 1%. This reflects our cost discipline and focus on continuous expense reengineering, essential elements of our value creation flywheel. We set out in early 2025 to deliver positive operating leverage for the year, and we delivered results well above that budget.

Coming into the year, our plan assumed approximately 100 basis points of positive operating leverage. This was a solid achievable planning target given our growth agenda and the level of strategic investment we intended to sustain. As we drove significant outperformance on revenues over the course of the year, we delivered a much wider 290 basis points of adjusted operating leverage while accelerating investments across our enterprise. This outcome is an expression of the model we've been building toward and will drive substantial value creation.

Slide 17 recaps our capital position. Over the last year, we drove adjusted CET1 higher. Our capital management strategy remains focused on our top priority of funding high-return loan growth, then supporting our strong dividend yield, and finally, capital return and all other uses. As we have noted, we intend to continue driving adjusted CET1 toward the midpoint of our 9% to 10% operating range. Given our projections for strong capital generation, we expect to have capacity to add approximately $50 million per quarter of repurchases to the mix of distribution in 2026 following the close of our partnership with Cadence.

Slide 18 gives an overview of how the flywheel of our operating and economic model is generating powerful returns and driving shareholder value. In 2025, we grew adjusted ROTCE by 40 basis points through robust PPNR expansion while simultaneously increasing our capital base. We have grown tangible book value 19% year-over-year, while returning 40% of earnings through dividends. And as noted, we intend to initiate programmatic share repurchases in the near term.

Turning to Slide 19. Credit quality continues to perform very well with net charge-offs of 24 basis points. Forward-looking credit metrics remain stable. The criticized asset ratio rose to 4.2%, primarily due to Veritex's commercial real estate loans that we identified during diligence and remains within our historical range. The nonperforming asset ratio was 63 basis points and has trended within our expected range for several quarters.

Let's turn to Slide 20 for our outlook for 2026. We're providing guidance for Huntington on a stand-alone basis. But given that we're only a few days away from closing our partnership with Cadence, we thought it would be helpful to give an initial view of how this might contribute to our 2026 results. Naturally, we will refine this outlook after the close.

Starting with net interest income, we expect growth on a stand-alone basis between 10% and 13%, supported by 11% to 12% growth in loans and 8% to 9% growth in deposits. We anticipate further net interest margin expansion this year, driven primarily by lower hedge drag and fixed asset repricing. We expect the NII contribution from Cadence this year to be approximately between $1.85 billion to $1.9 billion, including PAA. We will update this outlook inclusive of PAA later in the first quarter after we've had the opportunity to do the analysis post closing.

In terms of earning assets, our cash plus securities portfolio is currently about 25% of total assets, and we expect to remain approximately at this level post closing. On the topic of quarterly expectations for deposit and loan growth, we're expecting to see loans grow faster than deposits in the first quarter as we continue to optimize the funding we have received from Veritex and begin the integration of Cadence. After that, in Q2, Q3 and Q4, we expect to see deposits growing at a level consistent with loan growth as our normal organic process of core funding loans continues. We expect to exit 2026 with our deposit growth in dollar terms, equaling our asset growth, giving us strong funding momentum heading into 2027.

Moving to noninterest income. We expect fee revenues to grow between 13% and 16%. This represents the continued strong contributions from our 3 core value-added services, further growth in our loan commitment fees and the contribution from the new Capital Markets teams at TM Capital and Janney, that we added at the year-end 2025. We expect Cadence to add approximately $300 million in fee revenue. We plan to provide an update on our expected revenue synergies later in the first quarter. We anticipate core expenses will grow 10% to 11%, and we expect to deliver a baseline of 150 to 200 basis points of operating leverage. This outlook includes the expected cost synergies we've targeted from Veritex, which we expect to be fully in the run rate of our cost base by the second quarter.

We estimate Cadence will increase our expense base by approximately $1.1 billion. Similar to Veritex, we expect to begin realizing cost synergies almost immediately after closing with the full benefits run rating into expenses in the fourth quarter. We expect net charge-offs for the year to be between 25 and 35 basis points. Given our current starting point, we think losses will likely be at the lower end and normalize closer to the midpoint of that range over time. The combination with Cadence doesn't change this view.

The effective tax rate for the year is expected to be between 19% and 20%. The fully diluted average share count for the year, inclusive of Cadence-related issuance is expected to be approximately 2.020 billion shares. For the first quarter, we expect a weighted average share count to be approximately 1.9 billion. Cadence's anticipated February 1 close will result in a partial quarter impact to several income statement and balance sheet items. Also, with the addition of Cadence, we have a new class of preferred shares, which we have addressed in the footnote in the updated appendix slide.

Pulling back, let me conclude our guidance discussion with a few observations. First, our current 2026 forecast for Huntington's stand-alone growth in NII, in assets, deposits and fees generally exceeds the growth we've experienced in these categories in 2025, while our expected operating leverage is at the top end of our typical range. This underscores our focus on delivering strong organic growth even as we move through our integration with Cadence.

Second, we are executing against our integration plans. As noted, we expect to realize the cost synergies from Veritex in the second quarter and from Cadence in the fourth quarter. In terms of the revenue synergies, we have already begun to benefit from incremental lending and capital markets activity with former Veritex customers. And Cadence bankers are already actively engaged with their customers to educate them about the broader product platform and capabilities that we will be able to offer. We believe this will contribute to incremental revenue growth in the back half of 2026 and into 2027.

Turning to Slide 21. We remain confident in our long-term trajectory. Our operating model and the momentum across the franchise give us conviction in the sustainability of our targets for the medium and longer term. The investments we're making position Huntington for continued outperformance.

Concluding on Slide 23, our flywheel of value creation is working and poised to accelerate. Our differentiated business model drives strong growth and profitability. As our profitability expands and we generate efficiency through cost reengineering, we increase our capacity to invest. As we drive robust investment back into our business, we grow our competitive advantage. That competitive advantage drives further market differentiation and customer expansion, driving revenue growth and sustainable share gains in a virtuous cycle.

Looking ahead to 2026, we believe the benefits of our strong organic growth and recent partnerships will enable further expansion of our investment capacity over the next several years. This will increasingly distinguish us from our peer set and drive substantial shareholder value.

With that, we'll conclude our prepared remarks and move to Q&A.

Eric Wasserstrom
Executive VP & Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, Zach. We will now take questions. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

