JetBlue Airways Corporation (JBLU) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Koosh Patel - Director of Investor Relations
Joanna Geraghty - CEO & Director
Martin St. George - President
Ursula Hurley - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Daniel McKenzie - Seaport Research Partners
Duane Pfennigwerth - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Savanthi Syth - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Thomas Fitzgerald - TD Cowen, Research Division
Michael Linenberg - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Catherine O'Brien - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Jamie Baker - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Conor Cunningham - Melius Research LLC
Ravi Shanker - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Scott Group - Wolfe Research, LLC
Christopher Stathoulopoulos - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Brandon Oglenski - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Christa, and I would like to welcome everyone to the JetBlue Airways Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to JetBlue's Director of Investor Relations, Koosh Patel. Please go ahead, sir.

Koosh Patel
Director of Investor Relations

Thanks, Christa. Good morning everyone, and thanks for joining us for our fourth quarter 2025 earnings call. This morning, we issued our earnings release and a presentation that we will reference during this call. All of those documents are available on our website at investor.jetblue.com and on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In New York to discuss our results are Joanna Geraghty, our Chief Executive Officer; Marty St. George, our President; and Ursula Hurley, our Chief Financial Officer.

During today's call, we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding our first quarter and full year 2026 financial outlook and future results of operations and financial position, including long-term financial targets, industry and market trends, expectations with respect to tailwinds and headwinds, our ability to achieve operational and financial targets, our business strategy, plans for future operations and the associated impacts on our business.

All such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Please refer to our most recent earnings release as well as the 2024 10-K and other filings for a more detailed discussion of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to -- the statements made during this call are made only as of the date of this call. Other than as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to update this information. Investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also during the course of this call, we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Joanna Geraghty, our JetBlue CEO.

Joanna Geraghty
CEO & Director

Koosh, [indiscernible] some water. Thank you. Okay. Good morning, and thank you for joining JetBlue's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Call. I want to thank our crew members for their continued dedication to running a safe operation, especially during Winter Storm Fern. We've canceled over 1,100 flights as a result of the storm and the industry remains in recovery mode. While today's forward-looking guidance excludes the storm's impact, given January is typically a trough period for us, we don't currently expect the impact to be material to achieving our full year earnings guidance.

Before we get to 2026, let's take a look back at 2025. In the first full calendar year of our JetForward transformation, I am very proud of what we've accomplished. In the face of a government shutdown, macro uncertainty and thrust-related groundings disproportionately impacting JetBlue, we stayed focused and continued to work toward our goals. Operational performance has been a key proof point of our strategic transformation. In 2025, we beat all of our on-time performance targets, improved every one of these metrics versus the prior year and narrowed the gap relative to others. What makes this EvenMore significant is that it follows an equally strong 2024 when we also beat all of our on-time performance targets. Two consecutive years of reliability improvements are a direct result of JetForward investments, smarter planning, disciplined execution and our team's daily focus on doing the basics well, all in the most challenging airspace in the world.

Our customers are recognizing these meaningful reliability improvements. I want to emphasize this. In 2025, we achieved an 8-point gain in Net Promoter Score and a 17-point gain since the beginning of 2024 and the launch of Jet Forward, making us once again a leader in customer satisfaction. This improved experience is driving loyalty and in turn, has increased the rate at which customers return to fly JetBlue. The progress we've made on delivering reliable and caring service not only increases customer satisfaction, it also sets a solid foundation to enable the success of our other priority moves.

Our products and perks are increasingly capturing more premium revenue following the enhancement of EvenMore than continued outperformance of preferred seating, the release of our premium credit card, which far exceeded sign-up targets last year and the opening of our first-ever lounge at JFK. And not to forget, we won the J.D. Power Award for the best business class product last year. Our network changes continue to progress well, even as we capitalize on near-term strategic opportunities in Fort Lauderdale, where customer response to our close-in schedule additions has greatly exceeded our expectations.

Now underlying it all, we maintained a tight hold on costs in the face of meaningful capacity reductions. Taken together, these JetForward initiatives delivered $305 million of incremental EBIT, slightly better than our initial expectations. This outcome gives me great confidence that JetForward continues to be the right plan. Macro uncertainty pressured industry demand last year and impacted results versus our initial full year operating margin guidance of 0% to 1%. As previously shared, we estimate this uncertainty represented more than 4 points of headwind to operating margin for the year, impeding our path to restoring operating profitability in 2025 and resulting in an adjusted operating margin of negative 3.7%.

Looking ahead to '26, we are focused on turning the progress from our JetForward initiatives into improved profitability. At a high level, our full year guidance is based upon 3.5 points of capacity growth, 3.5 points of unit revenue improvement and 2% nonfuel unit cost growth, all contributing to our forecast of breakeven operating margin or better. Our guidance assumes the macro environment continues to provide a constructive baseline for demand. Any incremental recovery in GDP or reduction in fuel prices beyond consensus estimates represents potential upside as 2026 progresses.

Critically, we expect to deliver $310 million of incremental EBIT from JetForward this year for a total of $615 million in 2026. This keeps us on track to deliver $850 million to $950 million of total incremental EBIT for the full year 2027. The incremental EBIT growth in 2026 is driven by the continued ramp of our existing initiatives and the launch of several exciting new initiatives, including rolling out the remaining key components of our Blue Sky collaboration with United, the opening of our Boston Lounge and the launch of our domestic first-class product. Though it has already been a dynamic start to the year with the temporary closure of a portion of Caribbean airspace and Winter Storm Fern, our focus remains on controlling what we can and translating these efforts into several points of operating margin improvement in 2026. With that, I will turn it over to Marty.

Martin St. George
President

Thank you, Joanna. And once again, a sincere thank you to our crew members who stepped up to keep our operation running safely throughout 2025 and into 2026. So turning to Slide 7 of the presentation. Fourth quarter year-over-year unit revenue finished up 0.2%, over 2 points better than our guidance midpoint. And nearly 3 points better than our third quarter performance. The majority of our RASM beat was driven by underlying demand strength, coupled with loyalty, ancillaries and other revenue exceeding expectations. Importantly, those trends have carried forward into early first quarter bookings. We've seen a healthy recovery in domestic performance with year-over-year RASM for the fourth quarter better than that of international flying.

The booking curve further normalizes throughout the quarter with strong close-in booking performance for holiday travel that was more in line with historic levels. And as we've discussed throughout the year, the fourth quarter continued to show strong peak period performance, while off-peak demand remained more pressured. Our positive RASM was propelled by premium growth with premium RASM outperforming core RASM by 13 points in the quarter, reinforcing the strategic importance of our investments in Mint, EvenMore, loyalty, lounges and coming later this year, domestic first. To complement this addition, we are also refreshing our award-winning Mint cabins in-flight food menu later this year. We have over a decade of experience serving the premium customer, and we are excited to continue refining the premium experience, whether in Mint, BlueHouse or domestic first class.

We are also proud of the improvements we have made to our core offerings with changes to our Blue Basic fare and improvements in reliability and hospitality. We continue to make refinements across the cabin to make sure that all customers have a reason to return to JetBlue. Additionally, the improvements we've made to our operation and customer experience with JetForward have translated into even stronger brand loyalty, and we capitalized on that in 2025. Loyalty revenue grew by 8% for the full year and a year when capacity was down 1.6% and now accounts for over 13% of total revenue, up from 11% in 2023.

The introduction of our Blue Sky collaboration with United has made TrueBlue, EvenMore relevant across new geographies and combined with our loyalty programs leading customer satisfaction gives us confidence in continued outsized loyalty and premium growth. Co-brand performance accelerated throughout the year with double-digit spend growth and over 30% growth in new co-brand account acquisitions in the fourth quarter. Our first lounge called BlueHouse has been opened at JFK for over a month and is generating rave reviews. Since opening, we've seen lounge NPS in the mid-80s, alongside a meaningful increase in the acquisition rate of our premium co-branded credit card.

Turning to the network. In the fourth quarter, we added significant close-in capacity to our Fort Lauderdale focus city. The ramp of this strategic expansion, where we've announced over 20 new nonstop destinations plus increased frequency on a dozen others is materializing faster than our initial expectations. While we initially expected a 1 point RASM headwind in the fourth quarter resulting from the close-in nature of growth, the impact was closer to 0.5 point, reflecting customers' strong response to our scheduled additions and preference for our award-winning customer experience.

Fort Lauderdale represents a strong premium leisure market as both an origin and a destination. We are now offering up to 26 daily Mint flights touching Fort Lauderdale this winter, offering more domestic lie-flat seats than any other carrier in Florida. In addition, Fort Lauderdale sits strategically between our strong foothold in the Northeast and our robust Latin and Caribbean network, making it a well-placed connection gateway for customers with significant upside potential for JetBlue. With our far better customer experience and competitive low fares and now more destinations, we are pleased to bring EvenMore value and choice to customers in Fort Lauderdale and across South Florida. These initiatives and more all contributed to our JetForward performance in 2025.

JetForward delivered a total of $305 million of incremental EBIT last year. On Slide 8 of our earnings presentation, we've broken down each priority move and the key initiatives that delivered value in the second half of 2025. We're capitalizing on this progress and more in 2026. It will be a big year for Blue Sky as we expect to roll out the remaining key features of this collaboration with United throughout the year. We expect to activate cross-selling interline flights on each other's websites very soon. This will be followed by mutual elite customer loyalty benefits turning on as the year progresses. Through the second quarter, we begin -- as we expect to begin selling United's non-air ancillary through our [ Paisly ] subsidiary. We plan to launch with car rentals, followed by hotels, cruises, vacation packages and travel insurance, with the expectation to be selling all ancillary products by the end of the year.

Lastly, turning to guidance. For the first quarter, we expect capacity to be up 0.5% to 3.5% year-over-year with unit revenue growth in the range of flat to up 4%, supported by demand momentum exiting the fourth quarter and a constructive competitive capacity backdrop. We estimate the closure of Caribbean airspace in early January and some lingering demand impact will be a headwind to RASM of less than 1 point for the quarter, which is incorporated in our guidance. As Joanna mentioned, not incorporated in our former guidance are the recent impacts of Winter Storm Fern.

For the full year, we plan to deliver unit revenue growth of 2% to 5% on capacity growth of 2.5% to 4.5%, contributing to breakeven operating profitability or better. We expect positive year-over-year RASM growth in each quarter in 2026, but more weighted towards the second half of the year as initiatives ramp. Our RASM guidance is dependent on 4 key drivers highlighted on Slide 10 of our presentation. These drivers are part of JetForward and largely within our control, which gives me confidence in our ability to execute. The largest driver is loyalty, driving about 1 point of year-over-year RASM. We expect to grow loyalty revenue as a percentage of total revenue by about 1 point to 14%, driven by added redemption options and the opening of lounges.

Next, our product enhancements, which are expected to contribute 0.75 point of RASM. These enhancements help to drive yield and improve load factor as our offering evolves. Additionally, Blue Sky and Paisly are expected to drive another 0.75 point, and we believe the maturing of our network changes and improving customer satisfaction will contribute the remaining 0.5 point to get to a full year RASM midpoint of up 3.5%. Ultimately, we expect the combination of these drivers and over 200 underlying JetForward initiatives to result in a more competitive customer value proposition translating to RASM growth exceeding CASM growth this year and supporting our path back to sustained profitability. While the environment remains dynamic, the progress we've made through JetForward gives us confidence that we are positioned to deliver on our commitments in 2026. I will now turn it over to Ursula.

Ursula Hurley
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Marty. I want to reiterate what Joanna said about 2025. I am very proud of our team for controlling what we could amidst a dynamic environment to deliver on our full year cost outlook and build a strong foundation for what's next. We adjusted our business to navigate a challenging macro environment. We proactively reduced capacity by 2 points over the year as demand softened. We identified cost savings above and beyond our initial budget. And most importantly, we progressed on JetForward and delivered $305 million of incremental EBIT in the face of all these challenges.

Turning to Slide 12. The fourth quarter was marked by a high volume of unforeseen external events. Despite this, the team did an excellent job recovering from each event and moving forward under difficult circumstances. For the quarter, CASM ex-fuel was up 6.7%. disruptions from the government shutdown, the Airbus airworthiness directive and 2 major weather events added cost, reduced capacity by nearly 2 points and drove the gap to our initial CASM ex-fuel guidance.

Fuel price was also a headwind in the quarter with crack spreads rising sharply in late October and later moderating in conjunction with Brent, resulting in a fuel price of $2.51 versus our midpoint expectation of $2.40. For the full year, CASM ex-fuel finished up 6.2%, given full year capacity was reduced by nearly 2 points versus our initial expectations, I am especially proud of the team for managing costs within our initial range of up 5% to 7%. And in our first official year of JetForward, we achieved substantial cost savings driven by initiatives like improved tooling and utilization of AI to optimize planning, better manage disruptions and enable greater self-service. On the support center side, we strengthened efficiencies in our fixed costs. We also began modernizing fuel processes, unlocking cost savings through technology, process and operational initiatives.

Shifting to 2026. We expect full year CASM ex-fuel growth of 1% to 3%, driven by several factors. We averaged 9 aircraft on ground from GTF-related issues in 2025, and we expect that number to be in the mid-single digits in 2026. New deliveries will also drive capacity growth this year and provide tailwinds to labor productivity and fixed costs. Additionally, we are seeing benefits from fleet simplification efforts as we are now down to 2 fleet types. These benefits will be offset by higher rents and landing fees, investments in our customer experience and the impact of tariffs.

CASM ex-fuel in the first quarter is expected to grow the most of any quarter in the range of 3.5% to 5.5%, largely due to elevated maintenance expense. CASM ex-fuel growth is expected to moderate downward over the year and especially in the second half when we expect roughly flat year-over-year CASM ex as JetForward cost savings initiatives ramp up and year-over-year capacity grows. We estimate fuel price to be at the midpoint of our ranges, $2.34 for the first quarter and $2.27 for the full year.

Encouragingly, fuel efficiency remains a tailwind this year. ASMs per gallon are expected to improve by approximately 1.5% in 2026, contributing to an approximately 5% total improvement over the last 3 years, driven by the retirement of the E190 fleet and substantial fuel savings initiatives as part of JetForward. For reference, 5% of our annual fuel cost equates to $100 million of savings in 2026. Powered by an improving macro backdrop and $310 million of incremental JetForward EBIT, we expect RASM growth of 2% to 5% and CASM ex-fuel growth of 1% to 3% will drive breakeven or better operating profitability this year.

Turning to capital allocation and our financial priorities on Slide 13. In 2025, we invested $1.1 billion in capital expenditures, primarily consisting of 20 aircraft deliveries. For 2026, we expect capital expenditures of approximately $900 million, driven by 14 aircraft deliveries and the start of domestic first-class retrofits. Since the start of JetForward, we've worked to secure our financial future by cutting in half our planned 2026 through 2029 capital spending from $6 billion to $3 billion. As a result of these efforts, CapEx is expected to remain below $1 billion annually through the end of the decade, enabling low to mid-single-digit annual capacity growth while also accelerating our return to positive free cash flow.

We ended the year with $2.5 billion of liquidity, excluding our undrawn $600 million revolving credit facility. This year, we expect to repay approximately $800 million of principal throughout the year, including $325 million outstanding on our 2021 convertible notes, which mature this April. To address cash needs, we intend to raise approximately $500 million in new financing, supported by roughly $6.5 billion of unencumbered assets. We are focused on aircraft-backed structures and are evaluating all available markets as we prioritize securing low-cost capital.

For the year, we expect gross interest expense of approximately $580 million. We know there is still much work to do on our balance sheet, but I am encouraged by steps in the right direction. Gross debt peaked last year. And in 2026, we expect our leverage profile measured by net debt to EBITDA to begin to improve as benefits from JetForward substantially grow our EBITDA and help us reach our goal of restoring full year operating profitability.

As we look ahead, our priorities remain the same: getting back to sustained operating profitability, followed by generating positive free cash flow and restoring the health of our balance sheet. We believe there is a path to generating free cash flow by the end of 2027. In closing, while 2025 brought unexpected challenges, it also marked a year of meaningful progress that strengthen JetBlue's foundation and reinforced our confidence that JetForward is working. We entered 2026 focused, energized and committed to returning to breakeven profitability or better. The macro backdrop is improving. We're excited to be growing again. Our operation is performing at a level we haven't seen in years, and our commercial initiatives continue to ramp with new initiatives rolling out from Blue Sky to the launch of domestic first class and the opening of our second lounge in my hometown of Boston.

At the same time, we are returning to disciplined low single-digit cost growth. With these elements coming together, we believe we are well positioned to restore profitability, and I am eager for what comes next for JetBlue. With that, Christa, we'll open the call for questions.

