CarMax, Inc. (KMX) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 18, 2025 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

David Lowenstein - Vice President of Investor Relations
Thomas Folliard - Executive Chairman
David McCreight - Interim President, CEO & Independent Director
Enrique Mayor-Mora - Executive VP & CFO
Jon Daniels - Senior Vice President

Conference Call Participants

Sharon Zackfia - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Scot Ciccarelli - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Craig Kennison - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Rajat Gupta - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Brian Nagel - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Daniela Haigian - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
David Bellinger - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Christopher Bottiglieri - BNP Paribas, Research Division
John Babcock - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Jeffrey Lick - Stephens Inc., Research Division
Christopher Pierce - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Michael Montani - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 CarMax Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, David Lowenstein, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

David Lowenstein
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Nicki. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our fiscal 2026 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. I'm here today with Tom Folliard, Interim Executive Chairman of the Board; David McCreight, Interim President and CEO; Enrique Mayor-Mora, Executive Vice President and CFO; and Jon Daniels, Executive Vice President, CarMax Auto Finance.

Let me remind you our statements today that are not statements of historical fact including, but not limited to, statements regarding the company's future business plans, prospects and financial performance are forward-looking statements we make pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our current knowledge, expectations and assumptions and are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.

In providing projections and other forward-looking statements, we disclaim any intent or obligation to update them. For additional information on important factors and risks that could affect these expectations, please see our Form 8-K filed with the SEC this morning, our annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2025 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q previously filed with the SEC.

Please note, in addition to our earnings release, we have also prepared a quarterly investor presentation, and both documents are available on the Investor Relations section of our website. Should you have any follow-up questions after the call, please free to contact our Investor Relations department at (804) 747-0422, extension 7865.

Lastly, let me thank you in advance for asking only 1 question and getting back in the queue for more follow-ups. Tom?

Thomas Folliard
Executive Chairman

Thank you, David, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. Today, I'm going to provide some perspective on our leadership changes and CEO search. I'll then turn the call over to David, who will review our initial observations and the actions we are taking in response. After that, Enrique and Jon will speak to our third quarter results before we open the line for your questions.

As many of you know, I've been part of CarMax for more than 30 years. Over that time, we we've developed a beloved brand with national scale, unmatched physical and digital infrastructure and an award-winning culture. However, recent results have been unacceptable and did not reflect the company's potential. As a result, even though the Board was already working on a succession plan, we determined that more immediate change was required and that direct involvement from David and myself was the best approach to strengthen the business in the near term. The Board has been searching for a permanent CEO with urgency. We are seeking a proven leader who can drive sales, maximize the benefits of our omnichannel experience, strengthen our brand, improve operations and champion our culture. Conversations are underway, and we have some promising candidates.

What is most important is that the next CEO captures the tremendous opportunity that we have in front of us. As Interim Executive Chair of the Board, I'm focused on supporting David and the leadership team. David is in Richmond 5 days a week, and I'm spending a significant amount of time here myself. We are operating with a new sense of urgency to drive the business forward. I want to thank David for stepping into the interim President and CEO role. As you know, he has served on our Board since 2018. David has more than 20 years of executive leadership experience at prominent retail brands in highly competitive and fast-paced markets. He has led several successful brand transformations new omnichannel strategies and growth initiatives for digitally native brands. What made him a great addition to our Board has also been a tremendous asset in this transition.

And before I turn it over to David, I also want to thank Bill Nash for his more than 30 years of service with CarMax. David?

David McCreight
Interim President, CEO & Independent Director

Thanks, Tom, and good morning, everyone. I'm honored to serve as the Interim President and CEO at this important juncture in CarMax's history. While our top priority is to find a terrific next leader, in the interim, Tom and I are committed to lead and take the steps needed to set up the next CEO for success.

After 3 decades in the retail industry and having led multiple companies through turnarounds, I am familiar with the rigor and critical thinking required to succeed. The good news is CarMax already possesses many of the vital attributes needed to turn the business and regain momentum for growth including a well-known and trusted brand, a strong culture, supported by a base of 28,000 talented associates and an expansive digital and physical infrastructure, including over 250 premium locations that put us near 85% of the U.S. population. Despite these advantages and after decades of industry leadership, based on recent results, it is clear CarMax needs change.

And while it has been only a few weeks in our interim roles, here are some of our observations. Prices. Our average selling prices have drifted upward and appear to be less attractive to customers. To ensure that CarMax is a preferred choice, we will work to shrink the gap between our offering and the marketplace. We are lowering margins and supporting this action with marketing spend while also building out more effective ways to communicate our value to the consumer. We are also comprehensively reviewing all the costs associated with bringing a car to market. We're going to find ways to eliminate the unproductive while maintaining our reputation for having a high-quality fleet.

Around the consumer, we need to bring an even sharper focus on the customer throughout the organization. In guiding decisions, we will reawaken our intellectual curiosity and challenge long-held institutional beliefs as we work to discover the most important elements to the customer in closing the sale. We will emphasize customer inside decision-making rooted in fact-based consumer research.

Digital. We have the opportunity to incorporate a clear and more effective selling voice in our digital experience. While we have spent several years building out capabilities for customers to shop, how they want and where they want, we must now focus our energies on making the digital shopping experience easier and shift our digital voice from one that earnestly delivers abundant information to one that focuses on delivering sales. This will drive conversion and further improve customer satisfaction, just as we do so successfully in our stores.

SG&A. Similar to our approach in tackling the cost of bringing our cars to market, we believe our expense structure is too high. It is clear that we have the opportunity to leverage our technological platforms and process enhancements to reduce our spend. We are committed to sharpening our business model and eliminating unproductive costs. And in just a moment, Enrique will provide a progress update on the decisive actions we are taking to reduce at least $150 million in SG&A.

Profitability. We will more aggressively tap into opportunities in the selling experience to enhance our profitability. We're excited about the outstanding growth potential we have across CAF and our ancillary products. You will hear more from John today about our progress in full spectrum lending as well as the steps we are taking to capture incremental flow-through in our extended protection plan business.

Culture. We've always been a company intensely focused on operations. But with the advent of disruptive technologies, we now need to reignite the entrepreneurial spirit that made CarMax the industry leader for decades. Simply put, we will move faster and operate leaner while taking smart risks. We are optimistic that our immediate pricing and marketing actions will improve our sales performance, but pressure earnings in the near term. As we consider the business model more holistically moving forward, we anticipate that earnings pressure will be offset by unit growth, expanded profitability in CAF and ancillary products and through [indiscernible] reductions in SG&A and COGS.

Tom, the board and I believe that CarMax has many of the requisite attributes for a successful turnaround. We are confident the actions we're taking will begin to strengthen performance while the Board identifies the right permanent CEO to lead CarMax for the future. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Enrique to discuss our third quarter financial performance in more detail. Enrique?

Enrique Mayor-Mora
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, David. During the quarter, we delivered total sales of $5.8 billion, down 6.9% compared to last year, reflecting lower volume. In our retail business, total unit sales declined 8% and used unit comps were down 9%. Pressure performance across our age 0 to 5 inventory was partially offset by increased sales of older, higher-mileage vehicles, which represented over 40% of our sales for the quarter, an increase of approximately 5 percentage points compared to the second quarter and last year's third quarter.

Average selling price was $26,400 a year-over-year increase of $230 per unit. The increase was due to higher acquisition costs driven by year-over-year increase in market prices, partially offset by the increase in -- toward older, higher-mileage vehicles. Wholesale unit sales were down 6.2% versus the third quarter last year. Average wholesale selling price declined by $40 per unit to $8,100. We bought approximately 238,000 vehicles during the quarter, down 12% from last year. We purchased approximately 208,000 vehicles from our consumers with more than half of those buys coming through our online instant appraisal experience.

With the support of our Edmunds sales team, we sourced the remaining approximately 30,000 vehicles through dealers, which is down 9% from last year. Third quarter net earnings per diluted share was $0.43 versus $0.81 a year ago. This quarter was impacted by $0.08 of restructuring expenses related primarily to our CEO change and the workforce reductions in our customer experience centers. Total gross profit was $590 million, down 13% from last year's third quarter. Used retail margin of $379 million decreased by 11%, driven by lower volume and profit per used unit of $2,235 in line with historical averages, though down approximately $70 per unit from last year's record high. Wholesale vehicle margin of $115 million decreased by 17% from a year ago, with lower volume and wholesale gross product per unit of $899, a decline of approximately $120 year-over-year. Both wholesale volume and margin were impacted by steep depreciation.

Other gross profit was $96 million, down 16% from a year ago. This was driven primarily by the impact of lower retail unit volume on EPP. CarMax Auto Finance income was $175 million, up 9% over last year. Jon will provide detail on CAF's growth in a few moments. On the SG&A front, expenses for the third quarter were $581 million, up 1% from the prior year, driven by our previously communicated investment in marketing as we supported our new brand positioning launch and the restructuring expenses that I previously noted. These were partially offset by a reduction in the corporate bonus of growth.

As David noted, we are on track to achieve at least $150 million in exit rate savings by the end of fiscal year '27. We took our first significant step toward these savings this quarter with an approximately 30% reduction in our CEC workforce. This reduction was supported by our continued process and technology enhancements which are making our associates more efficient as well as empowering our customers to perform more of their shopping activities themselves.

Turning to capital allocation. During the third quarter, we continued our share repurchases, buying back 4.6 million shares for a total expenditure of $202 million. As of the end of the quarter, we had approximately $1.36 billion of our repurchase authorization remaining. Looking forward, I'll cover 2 items. We are optimistic the actions of lowering margins and increasing marketing will improve our sales performance trends, but may pressure near-term earnings. We expect marketing spend on a total unit basis to be up year-over-year in the fourth quarter, though to a lesser degree than during the third quarter, with a focus on investing acquisition to drive buys and sales.

Secondly, we expect pressure on our service margins in the fourth quarter due to seasonal sales and as we annualized over cost coverage leverage taken last year.

At this time, I will now turn the call over to Jon to provide more detail on CarMax Auto Finance and our continuing focus on full credit spectrum expansion. Jon?

Jon Daniels
Senior Vice President

Thanks, Enrique, and good morning, everyone. During the third quarter, CarMax Auto Finance originated $1.8 billion, resulting in sales penetration of 42.6% net of 3-day payoffs versus 43.1% last year. Weighted average contract rate charged to new customers was 11% versus 11.2% last quarter, as we continue to adjust consumer rates in reaction to the broader interest rate environment. Third-party Tier 2 volume for which we collect a fee and Tier 3 volume for which we pay a fee combined for 24.9% of sales versus 24.4% last year. Weakness in Tier 2 application volume, along with the impact from CAF's expansion in the Tier 2 space was more than offset by growth from our Tier 3 partners.

CAF penetration continues to benefit from underwriting and pricing adjustments implemented since the beginning of the fiscal year, estimated to be 100 to 150 basis points in the quarter. However, this volume has been offset primarily by lower application volume in the prime credit segment, along with the aforementioned Tier 3 partner lender overperformance. CAF income for the quarter was $175 million, up $15 million from the same period last year. Included in the quarter is a $27 million gain on sale, along with an additional $5 million of servicing fees attributed to the closing of the 25-B deal in September. Note that while the gain on sale is fully recognized at the time of sale, servicing fee income will continue over the remaining life of the deal and will be proportional to the receivable volume remaining.

Net interest margin on the portfolio was flat year-over-year and down to 6.2% from 6.6% last quarter and largely reflects the higher margin receivables removed from the balance sheet as a part of 25-B. CAF had a loan loss provision of $73 million resulting in a total reserve balance of $475 million or 2.87% of auto loans held for investment. Losses observed during the quarter were in line with our expectations upon which we based our reserve at the end of Q2. With regard to growing the CAF business, I'm immensely proud of our accomplishments today. Over the last 18 months, we have greatly expanded our funding options, including this quarter's off-balance sheet transaction, which have been critical prerequisites to this growth. In addition, we continue to add underwriting capabilities and modeling refinements that will support profitable expansion.

Separately, I am also excited about the significant future earnings potential from both our redesigned MaxCare plan which focuses on mechanical coverage and our new MaxCare Plus plan, which focuses on cosmetic protection. These products have already migrated from test phase to pilot in multiple markets, we expect to achieve near nationwide rollout during Q1 of FY '27.

Now I'd like to turn the call back over to David. David?

David McCreight
Interim President, CEO & Independent Director

Thank you, Enrique. Thank you, Jon. Today, we outlined our initial observations and near-term priorities to drive improvement, shrinking the price gap between our offering in the marketplace with a stronger focus on customer experience, increasing digital monetization capabilities, reducing costs, enhancing profitable growth drivers and improving the speed of decision making. And while we are realistic about the near-term challenges, CarMax's competitive foundation remains strong.

We have a trusted brand, national scale that is difficult to replicate leading omnichannel capabilities and growing digital infrastructure, a strong financing platform in CAF and an award-winning culture. Our execution has not matched the potential of these assets, but that's what's changing. Tom, the board and I are focused on strengthening performance and creating a solid foundation for the permanent CEO to build upon. We appreciate your continued confidence in CarMax and are committed to being transparent about our progress.

With that, we'll open the line for questions. Operator?

