Kontoor Brands, Inc. (KTB) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 3, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Michael Karapetian - Vice President of Corporate Development, Strategy, and Investor Relations
Scott Baxter - President, CEO & Chair of the Board
Joseph Alkire - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Irwin Boruchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Robert Drbul - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
Jonathan Komp - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Mauricio Serna Vega - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Paul Kearney - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Brooke Roach - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Laurent Vasilescu - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Peter McGoldrick - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Kontoor Brands Q3 2025 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions]

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It's now my pleasure to introduce your host, Michael Karapetian, Vice President, Corporate Development, Strategy and Investor Relations. Michael, please go ahead.

Michael Karapetian
Vice President of Corporate Development, Strategy, and Investor Relations

Thank you, operator, and welcome to Kontoor Brands Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Participants on today's call will make forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ. These uncertainties are detailed in documents filed with the SEC.

We urge you to read our risk factors, cautionary language and other disclosures contained in those reports. Amounts referred to on today's call will often be on an adjusted dollar basis, which we clearly defined in the news release that was issued earlier this morning and is available on our website at kontoorbrands.com.

Reconciliations of GAAP measures to adjusted amounts can be found in the supplemental financial tables included in today's news release. These tables identify and quantify excluded items and provide management's view of why this information is useful to investors. Unless otherwise noted, amounts referred to on this call will be in constant currency, which exclude the translation impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Joining me on today's call are Kontoor Brands President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Scott Baxter; and Chief Financial Officer and Global Head of Operations, Joe Alkire. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call for questions. Scott?

Scott Baxter
President, CEO & Chair of the Board

Thanks, Mike, and thank you all for joining us today. Our third quarter results highlight the power of our expanded brand portfolio. Helly Hansen grew double digits. Wrangler gained market share for the 14th consecutive quarter, and we launched Lee's first equity campaign in years, while taking proactive steps to improve the health of the marketplace.

While the timing shift impacted growth in the quarter, stronger gross margin expansion and disciplined expense management drove better-than-expected earnings. Based on our year-to-date performance and improving profitability, we are raising our full year outlook while the environment remains dynamic, we are well positioned to finish the year strong and enter '26 with momentum.

Now let's review highlights from Q3, starting with Helly Hansen. Third quarter results exceeded expectations with revenue growth of 11% and $0.03 of earnings accretion. Growth was broad-based across both Sport and Workwear in all regions. The business is performing at a high level, the integration is progressing well, and we continue to uncover new opportunities to create significant value together. To build on this momentum, we are focused on our strategic pillars.

First, accelerate growth. It starts with product. Our iconic platforms, including Crew, Alpha, Legendary and LIFA Merino continue to differentiate Helly in the marketplace and generate strong demand from our consumers. And our latest product launches have made '25 a record year.

We won 6 Red Dot Design awards, our most ever in a single year. Award-winning products include the Odin Ultimate Infinity jacket, Arctic Patrol Down Parka and within Workwear, the Magne Evolution Jacket. These are scalable platforms that we will drive global growth and nowhere is that opportunity greater than in the U.S. We see significant room to grow through a combination of new distribution D2C growth and investments in demand creation to increase brand awareness.

Currently, awareness in the U.S. is only 29%. This has grown by 6 points since 2019, while revenue has more than doubled. Starting next year, we will be making investments in top funnel demand creation to increase awareness and fuel accelerated growth.

Within Workwear, there are considerable market share opportunities, leveraging Helly's unique dual brand position. The connection to technical outdoor products worn by professionals on the mountain or water has made Helly a leader in pro-grade workwear in Europe. In the U.S., we are leading with footwear in regions where Helly Sport penetration is greatest.

Over time, this will expand to include the broader apparel assortment, supported by further development of our lightweight and cooling platforms to drive growth in warmer climates. Outside the U.S., we see opportunities entering new markets in Asia and increasing penetration in key markets within Europe, including Germany, Austria and Switzerland.

In addition, we will continue to support our business in China, which we operate through a joint venture. China is on track for over 70% growth this year. And second, double operating margin. We expect to increase operating margin from high single digits today to mid-teens through a combination of gross margin expansion and SG&A benefits. We are leveraging our global operating model, supply chain and technology platforms as well as Project Jeanius. This will create greater back-end efficiency and increased investment capacity to support our growth initiatives.

Helly is headed into the fourth quarter with incredible momentum, and I could not be more confident in the opportunities ahead.

Turning to Wrangler. Global revenue increased 1%, including 12% growth in digital. Wholesale growth was impacted by a timing shift into the fourth quarter. Excluding this shift, global revenue increased at a mid-single-digit rate. The third quarter marked Wrangler's 14th consecutive quarter of share gains according to Circana. In our core men's and women's bottoms business, we gained 80 basis points of market share.

Our female business had another strong quarter with growth of 20%. Our collaboration with Lainey Wilson continues to exceed expectations. Her latest collection is performing very well while supporting more premium AURs and increase penetration with younger consumers, and Bespoke is now the #1 female style at select specialty retailers. This has been a banner year for our female business, and we expect double-digit growth for the year.

Western grew high single digits in the quarter as the #1 Western apparel brand, we have never been stronger. At the upcoming Wrangler National Finals Rodeo in Las Vegas, we will be represented by some of the top athletes in the world as well as host events at the annual Cowboy Christmas where the Western world converges to showcase the best of Western apparel.

In addition, Wrangler Country Music Star's Lainey Wilson and Cody Johnson will perform sold-out shows. Western is on track for double-digit growth this year. To support this momentum, we will continue to invest behind our demand creation platforms, including live sports, streaming and social media. In particular, our highly successful, Good Mornings Make for Better Days campaign will continue through the balance of the year as we build momentum for the holidays and '26.

Turning to Lee. Revenue declined 9% as we took proactive steps to improve the health of the marketplace in China. Excluding these actions, revenue declined 4%. We are encouraged by the progress we are making against our brand realignment. Digital is leading the way with growth of 15% in the U.S. As we previewed last quarter, we launched our Built Like Lee equity campaign in September, the first of this scale in years.

While early days, we are encouraged by the reaction in the marketplace and have seen improvements in both brand equity and perception. We are also making progress in aligning products to our refreshed brand position. In addition to activating our iconic platforms, we are seeing success with new introductions such as Velocity Pant and collaborations with Crayola and Buck Mason. Crayola will be Lee's strongest collaboration ever and our second collaboration with Buck Mason is outperforming the initial launch.

Importantly, our 2025 collabs are attracting 3x more millennial purchasers. While the lead turnaround will not be linear, we will do this the right way. We expect sequential improvement in the fourth quarter.

Finally, we announced this morning, we made an additional $25 million voluntary debt repayment in the third quarter, and we expect to further reduce debt by $185 million in Q4. We are tracking ahead of our deleverage plan and expect to return to approximately 2x by year-end while consolidating a significant increase in earnings and cash flow.

Deleverage is our near-term priority, but we will take an offensive posture to deploy our cash generation to support our capital allocation framework, including our dividend and share repurchase programs.

Before turning it over to Joe, let me reiterate the confidence we have in achieving our '25 plan, our expanded brand portfolio provides significant opportunities to create value through strong fundamentals and increasing capital allocation optionality and while the environment remains uncertain, we are being proactive with initiatives such as Project Jeanius to offset headwinds in the marketplace. We are executing at a high level, and I am confident we are on a path to drive strong value for shareholders. Joe?

Joseph Alkire
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Scott, and thank you all for joining us today. Our third quarter results reflect the strength of our operating model and the benefits from our expanded brand portfolio. In what remains a highly dynamic environment, our fundamentals are strong, and we are operating from a position of strength. While a timing shift impacted revenue growth in the quarter, better-than-expected revenue and profitability from Helly Hansen stronger gross margin expansion and further improvement in operating efficiency drove earnings upside relative to our outlook.

Based on our year-to-date performance and increased visibility into the fourth quarter, we are raising our full year revenue, gross margin, earnings and cash flow outlook. We are well positioned to finish off a record year with good momentum as we enter 2026. Let's review our third quarter results.

Global revenue increased 27%, including the contribution from Helly Hansen. By brand, Wrangler Global revenue increased 1%. Revenue growth was impacted by a shift in the timing of wholesale shipments from the third to the fourth quarter. Excluding the shift, global revenue increased at a mid-single-digit rate as a result of strong demand for the brand around the globe.

In the U.S., revenue increased 1%, driven by 11% growth in DTC. Wholesale was flat to prior year. However, excluding the previously mentioned timing shift, U.S. wholesale revenue increased at a mid-single-digit rate. Growth was broad-based, driven by strong increases in female, Western as well as continued market share gains. Denim grew at a low single-digit rate.

Following a strong July and August, POS moderated to a low single-digit increase in September, consistent with the year-to-date average. October POS was flat compared to prior year, with POS increasing at a mid-single-digit rate over the past 2 weeks. Wrangler international revenue increased 2%, driven by 19% growth in digital and 1% growth in wholesale.

Turning to Lee. Global revenue decreased 9%. During the quarter, revenue was impacted by proactive actions in China to address challenges in the marketplace. We discussed our intent to execute these actions on our second quarter call. Excluding the actions taken in China, global Lee revenue decreased 4%, reflecting sequential improvement in the revenue comparison from the second quarter, and we expect further improvement in the fourth quarter.

U.S. revenue decreased 9% as we work to address challenges within certain segments of our distribution footprint and drive more consistency with the brand's realignment and go-forward strategy. Digital revenue increased 15%. We remain encouraged by the momentum in our digital business, which has continued into the fourth quarter. Lee international revenue decreased 9%, with declines in wholesale offsetting mid-single-digit growth in our brick-and-mortar stores. Excluding the actions taken in China, Lee international revenue increased approximately 3%.

Now turning to Helly Hansen. Global revenue of $193 million increased 11% compared to prior year reported results. Growth was broad-based across both Sport and Workwear and in all geographic regions. We are encouraged by the stronger-than-expected results. The integration is progressing well, and we are confident Helly will be a significant contributor to both revenue and earnings growth in the coming years.

We now have line of sight to greater than $25 million of run rate synergies, which will begin to meaningfully impact profitability in 2026. These synergies will help fund investments in business, including geographic and category expansion, demand creation, DTC, supply chain capabilities and our technology platform. As we look forward to 2026, we expect Helly's momentum to continue to build. The spring/summer order book has accelerated from fall/winter 2025 and Workwear preorders are up at a double-digit rate.

We recently kicked off the fall/winter 2026 selling season, and the feedback from the marketplace has been strong, reflecting the robust product and innovation pipeline of the brand.

Moving to the remainder of the P&L. Adjusted gross margin expanded 80 basis points to 45.8%. Excluding Helly Hansen, adjusted gross margin expanded 140 basis points, driven by the benefits of Project Jeanius, channel and product mix as well as targeted pricing actions. This was partially offset by increased product costs and the impact from recently enacted increases in tariffs.

Helly Hansen was diluted adjusted gross margin by approximately 60 basis points. During the quarter, we took actions to improve inventory turnover, increase cash generation and accelerate debt repayment. There is a significant opportunity at Helly Hansen to improve both gross margin and net working capital by leveraging our supply chain capabilities in the areas of planning, procurement and inventory management.

Adjusted SG&A expense was $269 million. Excluding Helly Hansen, adjusted SG&A was flat compared to prior year, supported by lower distribution and freight expenses and the benefits of Project Jeanius. We remain focused on driving further improvements in operating efficiency in light of the environment. And adjusted earnings per share was $1.44, increasing 5% compared to prior year.

Adjusted EPS was $0.09 above our prior outlook. Helly Hansen contributed $0.03 per share compared to our prior outlook of breakeven earnings.

Turning to the balance sheet. Inventory at the end of the third quarter was $765 million. Excluding Helly Hansen, inventory increased 21% to $560 million, driven by a temporary increase in inventory to support our supply chain transformation, earlier-than-expected inventory receipts as a result of improved sourcing lead times as well as the impact of tariffs.

We expect inventory to normalize in the fourth quarter and decreased approximately $120 million from the third quarter to approximately $645 million. We finished the quarter with net debt of $1.3 billion and $82 million of cash on hand. Our $500 million revolver remains undrawn. On a pro forma basis, our net leverage ratio was 2.5x. During the quarter, we made a voluntary $25 million debt repayment. We are tracking ahead of our deleverage plan and expect to make an additional $185 million voluntary payment in the fourth quarter.

We anticipate returning to approximately 2x net leverage by year-end. Share repurchase activity remains on pause near term as we focus on paying down acquisition-related debt and reducing leverage. We have $215 million remaining under our current share repurchase authorization. And as previously announced, our Board declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.53 per share, a 2% increase.

And finally, on a trailing 12-month basis, adjusted return on invested capital was 23%, improving from 22% in the second quarter.

Now let's review our updated outlook. Full year revenue is now expected to be at the upper end of our prior outlook range of $3.09 billion to $3.12 billion, representing growth of approximately 19% to 20%. Helly Hansen is now expected to contribute $460 million to full year revenue compared to our prior outlook of $455 million. Excluding Helly Hansen, we expect revenue growth of approximately 2% and compared to our prior outlook of 1% to 2% growth.

For the fourth quarter, we expect revenue to be in the range of $970 million to $980 million, representing growth of 39% to 40%, including the expected contribution from Helly Hansen. Our outlook includes the impact of a 53rd week, which is expected to benefit the fourth quarter by approximately 4 points of revenue growth. We continue to plan the business conservatively.

For Wrangler and Lee, our updated outlook assumes no meaningful change in POS trends or inventory positions at retail for the balance of the year. This is consistent with our prior outlook. Excluding Helly Hansen, October revenue growth was approximately 6%, tracking slightly ahead of our anticipated organic revenue growth for the fourth quarter, excluding the 53rd week.

For Helly Hansen, our revenue outlook is supported by current demand trends and the fall/winter 2025 order book, which accounts for the majority of support revenue.

Moving to gross margin. Adjusted gross margin is now expected to be approximately 46.4% compared to our prior outlook of approximately 46.1%. Our outlook represents an increase of approximately 130 basis points compared to prior year. We expect fourth quarter adjusted gross margin of approximately 45.8%, representing an increase of approximately 110 basis points compared to prior year.

Adjusted SG&A expense is expected to increase approximately 24%, reflecting the contribution from Helly Hansen as well as increased investments, primarily in the areas of demand creation, technology and direct-to-consumer. Excluding Helly, we expect SG&A to increase at a low single-digit rate, consistent with our prior outlook.

We continue to anticipate Project Jeanius savings to mature to a full run rate in excess of $100 million of annual savings over the course of 2026. Adjusted EPS is now expected to be approximately $5.50, representing an increase of 12%. This compares to our prior outlook of approximately $5.45. Helly Hansen is expected to benefit full year 2025 adjusted EPS by approximately $0.20, consistent with our prior outlook.

We have not included any benefit from synergies in our outlook. We expect fourth quarter adjusted EPS of approximately $1.64, reflecting growth of about 19%.

Finally, we continue to expect another year of strong cash generation. Cash from operations is expected to approximate $400 million, including the contribution from Helly Hansen. This compares to our prior outlook for cash from operations to exceed $375 million. Starting in the fourth quarter, we will begin to leverage and expand our supply chain and AR financing programs to include Helly Hansen. These programs and capabilities will be a significant unlock for the business while supporting accelerated cash generation and deleverage.

Before opening it up for questions, let me reiterate the confidence we have in achieving our 2025 objectives. While the environment remains dynamic, we are operating from a position of strength. The integration of Helly Hansen is progressing well. We are ahead of our planned deleverage path and Wrangler and Lee are on track to deliver a strong fourth quarter.

Our operational execution and discipline continues to drive further improvements in our business fundamentals, supporting higher returns on capital and significant capital allocation optionality moving forward. This concludes our prepared remarks. I will now turn the call back to the operator.