LendingClub Corporation (LC) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Artem Nalivayko - VP and Head of FP&A and Investor Relations
Scott Sanborn - CEO & Director
Andrew LaBenne - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Timothy Switzer - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Vincent Caintic - BTIG, LLC, Research Division
John Hecht - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Kyle Joseph - Stephens Inc., Research Division
David Scharf - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Giuliano Anderes-Bologna - Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us, and welcome to the LendingClub Q4 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

I will now hand the conference over to Artem Nalivayko, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Artem Nalivayko
VP and Head of FP&A and Investor Relations

Thank you, and good afternoon. Welcome to LendingClub's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Joining me today to talk about our results are Scott Sanborn, CEO; and Drew LaBenne Ben, CFO. You can find the presentation accompanying our earnings release on the Investor Relations section of our website. On the call, in addition to questions from analysts, we will also be answering some of the questions that were submitted for consideration via e-mail or through the Say Technologies platform.

Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements, including with respect to our competitive advantages, demand for our loans and marketplace products and future business and financial performance. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are described in today's press release and earnings presentation. Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on current expectations and assumptions, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events.

Our remarks also include non-GAAP measures relating to our performance, including tangible book value per common share, pre-provision net revenue and return on tangible common equity. You can find more information on our use of non-GAAP measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in today's earnings release and presentation. Finally, please note all financial comparisons in today's prepared remarks are to the prior year period, unless otherwise noted.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Scott.

Scott Sanborn
CEO & Director

All right. Thank you, Artem. Welcome, everyone. We had a strong close to what was one of the best years in LendingClub's history. Our results are validating our strategy and demonstrating our commitment to deliver a combination of growth, profitability and shareholder returns.

In the quarter, we grew originations 40% year-on-year to $2.6 billion, with all product lines contributing to the growth. We also more than tripled return on tangible common equity to almost 12%. For the full year, we grew originations by 33% to nearly $10 billion and more than doubled earnings per share, and we are looking forward to building on our success.

Our substantial originations growth was driven by continued product innovation and marketing expansion, while also supported by improved marketplace pricing and sustained credit outperformance. Our discipline, combined with our advanced underwriting capabilities delivered 40% to 50% better credit performance versus our competitive set, and we're seeing stable performance and consistency in our borrowers' behavior.

Strong credit performance continues to support loan investor demand with marketplace revenue increasing 36% year-on-year, driven by higher marketplace volumes and loan sales pricing improving back towards our historical range.

We introduced a rated structured certificate product in 2025 designed to meet the needs of insurance capital. Insurance investors have a cost of funds and a risk appetite similar to banks, and so growth in this segment should further support the marketplace. In Q4, we initiated our first direct forward flow agreement with a top U.S. insurance company, which is a nice addition to the previously announced agreements with BlackRock and Blue Owl.

Investors remain selective about who they choose as partners. Our depth of credit data, performance history and stability as a bank positions LendingClub as a counterparty of choice.

Turning to our bank. Our balance sheet is continuing to grow with our loan portfolio driving net interest income up 14% year-over-year. Our funding is supported by our award-winning deposit products that deliver real value to customers while also driving ongoing engagement with LendingClub, supporting efficient revenue growth over the long term.

LevelUp Savings, which rewards good savings behavior, is growing by double digits and driving 20% to 30% more log-ins per month than our legacy savings product. Personal loan borrowers account for over 15% of new accounts and borrowers who have paid off their loans are using the product to build a financial cushion, accumulating average balances of over $15,000.

Our more recently launched LevelUp Checking is also growing by double digits, with 60% of new accounts coming from personal loan borrowers, 84% of whom say they are now more likely to consider a LendingClub loan in the future. This virtuous cycle is exactly how our engagement model is designed to work.

Importantly, we entered 2026 in a great position with multiple competitive strengths. First is our unmatched underwriting advantage enabled by proprietary models and informed by over 150 billion cells of data. Second are our products that attract members for life by delivering instant meaningful value.

Third are our experiences that keep members coming back. Fourth is our agile, scalable technology foundation, which is engineered for innovation. And fifth is our digital marketplace bank business model that combines the speed of a fintech and the resiliency of a bank, the best of both worlds.

These competitive strengths are driving success in our core personal loan debt consolidation use case and have application far beyond, opening additional vectors for growth. Our significant advantages in funding reliability, underwriting and user experience are allowing us to win over the competition and expand our major purchase finance business.

Building on this momentum, last quarter, we shared our planned entry into the $0.5 trillion home improvement financing market, an industry that aligns well with our capabilities. With our acquisition of foundational technology, hiring of leadership and key talent and our first distribution partnership signed, we are well positioned for growth over the medium term. We are currently integrating the acquired code base and remain on track to launch the partnership midyear.

Our announced entry has also generated substantial inbound interest from additional partners, presenting potential opportunities to strengthen our trajectory. We're excited about the year ahead and expect our marketing investments to continue scaling, credit performance to remain best-in-class and operating discipline and AI-driven efficiencies to help expand margins. We're also excited to launch our new brand later in the year to better reflect the scale of our ambition.

Before I turn it over to Drew, I want to take a moment to thank Hans Morris, who will be stepping down from our Board in March after 13 years of extraordinary contributions. Hans has been instrumental to me and to LendingClub from early investor to long-serving Board Chair and his impact on the company is difficult to overstate. I am deeply grateful for his leadership and support. We are very fortunate that Tim Mayopoulos, who's been a high-impact member of the LendingClub Board for nearly a decade and who brings extensive experience in banking and fintech will be assuming the role of Chairman.

With that, Drew, I'll turn it over to you.

Andrew LaBenne
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Scott, and good afternoon, everyone. Scott already covered the high-level results that made 2025 a fantastic year. So let's get into the details of our fourth quarter. Turning to Page 10 of our earnings presentation. Loan originations grew by 40% to $2.6 billion. Borrower demand remains strong as the value we are providing continues to be compelling. Loan investor demand also remained strong as marketplace loan sales prices continued to increase in the quarter.

Our credit performance sets us apart from our competitive set and is one of the reasons we have been able to sell these loans without any need to provide credit enhancements. Leveraging one of the benefits of being a bank, we grew our held for sale extended seasoning portfolio to $1.8 billion, consistent with our strategy to expand our balance sheet, while maintaining an inventory of seasoned loans for our marketplace buyers. We also retained nearly $500 million of loans in our held for investment portfolio.

Now let's turn to the 2 components of revenue on Page 11. Noninterest income grew 38% to $103 million, benefiting from higher marketplace sales volumes, improved loan sales prices and continued strong credit performance. Net interest income increased 14% to $163 million, another all-time high, supported by a larger portfolio of interest-earning assets and continued funding cost optimization.

Turning now to Page 12. Our net interest margin came in at 6%, up 56 basis points over the prior year. I'll note, we retained higher cash balances to enable accelerated growth in 2026, which resulted in a sequential decline in net interest margin. If cash balances have been flat, net interest margin would have been 17 basis points higher and nearly flat to the prior quarter. We expect the deployment of this liquidity to be supportive of net interest margin as we grow the loan portfolio, in line with what we shared at Investor Day.

On balance sheet funding, we ended the quarter at $9.8 billion in deposits, which was an increase of 8% compared to the prior year, and we continue to see healthy deposit trends across our product offerings.

Turning to expenses on Page 13. Noninterest expense was $169 million, up 19% year-over-year. The majority of the sequential and year-over-year rise was due to planned higher marketing spend as we continue to invest in paid channels to unlock future growth.

Now let's move on to credit where performance remains excellent. We continue to outperform the industry with delinquency and charge-off metrics well below our competitive set. Provision for credit losses was $47 million, reflecting disciplined underwriting and stable consumer credit performance. I'd note this quarter, a higher percentage of our held for investment loans were from our major purchase finance business, which is a longer duration asset and therefore, carries a higher day 1 provision.

In terms of net charge-off ratio, we experienced strong performance across all our vintages, and we were down 80 basis points over the prior year. As we discussed on the last call, we saw the expected sequential increase as more recent vintages mature.

On Page 14, our expectation for lifetime losses on our held for investment portfolio under CECL are also stable to improving across all annual vintages, including 2025, which contains a higher level of qualitative reserves. Going forward, given the stability of these metrics and our move to fair value option for all new loan originations, we are no longer going to be updating this slide on a quarterly basis.

Turning to the balance sheet. Total assets grew to $11.6 billion, up 9% year-over-year. Our balance sheet remains a competitive strength, allowing us to generate recurring revenue through retained loans while maintaining the flexibility to scale up marketplace volume as loan investor demand grows. We ended the quarter well capitalized with strong liquidity and position to fund future growth.

I'd like to provide a brief update on the $100 million share repurchase and acquisition program we announced in November. In Q4, we deployed approximately $12 million at an average share price of $17.65 and expect to continue to deploy additional excess capital through the program to support our shareholders.

Moving to Page 15. Net income before taxes of $50 million more than quadrupled compared to a year ago. Taxes for the quarter were $8.5 million, reflecting an effective tax rate of 16.9% and included a nonrecurring benefit from research and development tax credits. There were also some beneficial changes to California and Massachusetts tax law in the quarter. As a result, we expect a normalized effective tax rate of approximately 24% going forward with some potential for variability due to the valuation of stock grants and other factors.

All of this translated to diluted earnings per share of $0.35 and tangible book value per share of $12.30. Our ROTCE of 11.9% came in above the high end of our guidance range. For the full year, we earned $136 million with diluted earnings per share of $1.16 and ROTCE of 10.2%.

Now let's turn to our outlook. Looking ahead, we remain encouraged by the underlying fundamentals of our business, and our guidance assumes a healthy economy with stable macroeconomic conditions throughout the year. Before I get into the guide, I'd like to spend a few minutes on our move to fair value option. As we discussed at Investor Day, this change is about simplifying our financials by better aligning the timing of revenue recognition and losses and creating a consistent accounting framework across our marketplace and bank businesses.

As you can see on Page 18, over time, we expect this to result in a higher rate of return on invested capital by removing the front-loaded CECL impact we currently experience as we grow held for investment loans. We recognize that many of you have questions around how this change flows through the financials. So we've added a new section to this earnings presentation to walk through the mechanics in detail. This includes how fair value is established at origination, how revenue and credit flow through the P&L after day 1, and how fair value adjustments will show up in noninterest income.

To make this tangible, Page 21 provides an illustrative single vintage example showing both day 1 and day 2 economics, and Page 22 shows the select financial measures of our current fair value portfolio over the last 2 quarters.

As onetime support to help with first quarter modeling, we are also providing estimates for both fair value adjustments and credit provisioning. We expect total fair value adjustments in the first quarter to be roughly double fourth quarter 2025 levels due to 3 factors.

First, there is more volume receiving a day 1 fair value adjustment as we are transitioning 100% of all new held for investment originations to fair value option. Second, loans from the major purchase finance business have a longer duration and a higher discount rate, which will mean a higher day 1 fair value adjustment.

Third, day 2 fair value adjustments will also be larger due to a higher average balance of loans carried under fair value during the quarter. Separately, moving to fair value option means there will be no day 1 provision for loan losses on new originations. We will still have CECL expense from the remaining legacy portfolio, which we currently estimate at approximately $10 million for the quarter, subject to quarterly variability.

Further, we will no longer defer loan origination fee revenue nor marketing expense for held for investment loans, which means both line items should increase from Q4 2025 to Q1 2026, independent of any changes in origination volume.

For Q1 2026, we expect to deliver loan originations of $2.55 billion to $2.65 billion, representing 28% to 33% year-over-year growth with additional investments in marketing to fuel 2026 growth. For the full year 2026, we expect originations of $11.6 billion to $12.6 billion, up 21% to 31% year-over-year. On earnings for Q1 2026, we expect to deliver diluted earnings per share of $0.34 to $0.39, a 240% to 290% increase year-over-year. For the full year 2026, we expect to deliver $1.65 to $1.80 earnings per share, consistent with the 13% to 15% near-term ROTCE target we shared at Investor Day and up 42% to 55% year-over-year.

With that, we'll open it up for Q&A.

