Levi Strauss & Co. (LEVI) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 9, 2025 5:00 PM EDT

Company Participants

Aida Orphan - Vice President of Investor Relations
Michelle Gass - CEO, President & Director
Harmit Singh - Executive VP & Chief Financial & Growth Officer

Conference Call Participants

Laurent Vasilescu - BNP Paribas Exane, Research Division
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Irwin Boruchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Paul Kearney - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Oliver Chen - TD Cowen, Research Division
Dana Telsey - Telsey Advisory Group LLC
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Tracy Kogan - Citigroup Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Levi Strauss & Co. Third Quarter Fiscal 2025 Earnings Conference Call for the period ending August 31, 2025. [Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded and may not be reproduced in whole or in part without written permission from the company. This conference call is being broadcast over the Internet and a replay of the webcast will be accessible for 1 quarter on the company's website, levistrauss.com.

I would now like to turn the call over to Aida Orphan, Vice President of Investor Relations at Levi Strauss & Company.

Aida Orphan
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you for joining us on the call today to discuss the results for our third quarter of fiscal 2025. Joining me on today's call are Michelle Gass, our President and CEO; and Harmit Singh, our Chief Financial and Growth Officer.

We'd like to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements based on current expectations, and those statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties are detailed in our reports filed with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.

Additionally, during this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are not intended to be a substitute for our GAAP results. Definitions of these measures and reconciliations to their most comparable GAAP measures are included in our earnings release available on the IR section of our website, investors.levistrauss.com.

Please note that Michelle and Harmit will be referencing organic net revenues or constant currency numbers, unless otherwise noted, and the information provided is based on continuing operations.

Finally, this call is being webcast on our IR website, and a replay of this call will be available on the website shortly. Today's call is scheduled for 1 hour. So please limit yourself to 1 question at a time to give others the opportunity to have their questions addressed.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Michelle.

Michelle Gass
CEO, President & Director

Thank you, and welcome, everyone. What I'll share today builds on the themes I've been emphasizing this year as we pivot to become a DTC-first, head-to-toe denim lifestyle retailer. The consistent execution of our strategic priorities is driving a meaningful inflection in our financial performance. And today, I'm pleased to share that we delivered another very strong quarter with upside across the P&L giving us the confidence to raise our full year revenue and EPS guidance.

In Q3, we delivered our fourth consecutive quarter of high single-digit organic revenue growth. Strength was once again broad-based across our business including DTC and Wholesale, International and Domestic, Women's and Men's and Tops and Bottoms. Our growth was led by continued strong sales and profitability in our direct-to-consumer channel, up 9% and fueled by strong comp growth as well as solid performance in global wholesale.

Our largest market, the U.S., grew 3%; and our International business was up 9%, led by an acceleration in Asia. And we continue to see robust performance in our core as well as outsized growth in our key focus areas like women's and tops. The results we've delivered this quarter against an increasingly complex backdrop are yet another proof point that our strategies are working.

Looking ahead, there are several factors that give me even more conviction that our momentum will continue. First, our narrowed focus enables us to maximize the full potential of the Levi's brand. We will continue to build momentum through impactful marketing campaigns, strategic partnerships and innovative collaborations ensuring that the brand remains firmly at the center of culture.

Second, the total addressable market for denim is large and growing as consumer preferences continue to shift towards casualization. As a definitive market leader, we are well positioned to take advantage and drive growth.

Third, our denim leadership puts us in a prime position to define and own head-to-toe denim lifestyle, further expanding our addressable market. As we drive this momentum forward, we'll continue to deliver an innovative and robust product pipeline across genders and categories.

Fourth, our DTC-first strategy is bringing us closer to the consumer and generating consistent and significant growth, while we have also stabilized and grown our wholesale business. Both channels are seeing strong improvements in profitability.

Fifth, while international already comprises nearly 60% of our total business, there are still untapped opportunities for us to grow, particularly in Asia, where our business has momentum and the opportunity for continued expansion is considerable. Underpinning all of this is our culture of performance with a sharpened focus on operating with rigor and executing with excellence, from go-to-market efficiencies and more productive store operations to end-to-end supply chain improvements.

I will now turn to highlights from the third quarter in the context of our strategies. All numbers that Harmit and I will reference are on an organic continuing operations basis. Let's start with our first strategy, being brand-led. Levi's had another strong quarter of growth. In the quarter, we launched the final chapter of the REIIMAGINE campaign with Beyonce. This campaign delivered as intended, fueling momentum across the business, specifically driving growth in our Levi's Women's business up 12% year-to-date.

In August, we debuted our new global campaign starring Shaboozey, underscoring our relevancy and authenticity with men. The campaign showcases our most iconic products, the 501, the Trucker Jacket and the Western Shirt, and we're pleased with how this campaign is being received by our fans.

In addition, we also cultivated enthusiasm for the brand through a broad range of collaborations, including a joint collection with Nike, using Levi's heritage denim craftsmanship with Nike's athletic sneaker culture. Our collaborations generate brand heat and introduce Levi's to new consumers. And just this week, we launched a special collection with Toy Story in celebration of their 30th anniversary.

Turning to products. Our evolution to a head-to-toe denim lifestyle retailer continues to gain momentum, all while strengthening our position as the global authority in denim. Our Levi's Women's business continues to deliver outsized growth, up 9% in Q3, while our leading Levi's Men's business grew a solid 5%.

Driven by our diversified Fit portfolio, we saw strong growth in our bottoms business, which was up 6%. We're continuing to inject newness into the looser fit trends with the new baggy utility silhouettes for him and the launch of our Baggy Dad Barrel for her, and we're driving a revival in low rise with our low and super low collection of fits, which are delivering strong growth.

As we evolve into denim lifestyle, we're making meaningful progress on our seasonally relevant assortments as consumers look for more buy now, wear now products. Following last year reset, tops continue to drive notable growth, up 9% with strength across Women's and Men's.

For the quarter, our Shorts business delivered strong growth across genders. We continue to infuse newness into the assortment through fit and fabric innovation from our linen blend style to the launch of the 501 Curve. And with respect to our premiumization efforts, we began to roll out our elevated Blue Tab collection to Europe in early September, following a successful launch in Asia and U.S. earlier this year.

Blue Tab merges Levi's iconic aesthetics with a refined quality and thoughtful Japanese craftsmanship. Looking to the holiday season, we are well positioned with the right merchandise assortment and the right marketing campaign. We're expanding the range of occasions and amplifying the many ways that fans can embrace our denim lifestyle assortment through elevated fabrics, textures and embellishments. We're excited to showcase Levi's through a fresh lens that reflects the season's full spectrum of style.

Now shifting to our strategy to be DTC-first. Global direct-to-consumer sales were up 9%, driven by strong performance in both our stores and online. We generated high single-digit comp growth fueled by higher UPT, AUR and full price selling as our expanded denim lifestyle assortment continues to resonate with our consumers around the world.

And as we continue to grow our DTC channel, we remain focused on doing so profitably with our productivity initiatives resulting in more than 400 basis points of margin expansion in the quarter. We are pleased with the strong results from our store optimization initiatives, which have improved both the consumer experience and store productivity.

We've enhanced our in-store lifestyle merchandising to make the store environment more inspiring and shoppable, highlighting our broader assortment of head-to-toe look. We've also been focused on improving our assortment planning and life cycle management, resulting in lower promotions and higher full-price selling.

Additionally, we're in the process of rolling out a new global selling model for our store team, which, coupled with our enhanced labor scheduling system, is improving the consumer experience and delivering operational efficiencies.

We had another quarter of very strong growth in e-com, up 16%, driven by an increase in traffic across all segments. We expect e-commerce to continue to be our fastest-growing channel on the path to comprising 15% of our total business, up from just 9% today.

In our wholesale channel, net revenues were up 5%, reflecting growth across all segments. In the U.S., the Levi's brands were up 2%, as we continue to invest in top doors and expand and elevate our assortments. Western wear is core to who we are, and we're pleased to have recently expanded our product assortment with Boot Barn and gained new distribution at Cavender's. We also see opportunities to increase our penetration with premium and specialty accounts as we broaden and elevate our lifestyle assortment.

Now turning to our third strategy, powering the portfolio. Our International business grew 9% in Q3. Asia accelerated in the quarter, driven by double-digit growth in key markets like India, Japan, Korea and Turkey. I recently visited several stores across India, Korea and Japan, and it is clear that consumers are responding to the work we've done to ensure the best expression of our denim lifestyle assortment.

Japan, in particular, is a market with a very high bar for denim. We've been investing in Japan over the past decade, transitioning the market from primarily a wholesale business to now close to 75% DTC. Walking our stores in Nagoya, Shinjuku and Harajuku, which are some of our highest volume stores in the world, you'll see the fullest and most premium expression of the Levi's brand. Up almost 50% since 2019 and continuing to gain momentum, we remain optimistic about future opportunities in Japan, and we will replicate our successful playbook in this market across the globe.

Beyond Yoga was up 2% and DTC was up 23%, driven by comps, new doors and e-commerce. Growth in DTC was offset by a decline in wholesale as the team focuses on higher quality sales in the channel. Looking to Q4, we have additional stores opening in Boston, Houston and 2 more stores in Northern California, bringing our total store count to 14. We expect Beyond Yoga to end the year up low teens versus prior year.

In closing, we delivered another standout quarter with sales and earnings growth that positions us to increase our outlook for the year. We are fully prepared and well positioned for holiday, as we enter the season with momentum. Despite an increasingly uncertain external backdrop, we have several tailwinds that give me confidence in not only delivering a strong finish to 2025, but also another strong year in 2026.

Finally, I'd like to thank our incredible talented and passionate team for driving our transformation into the world's denim lifestyle leader and delivering outstanding service to our fans every day.

And with that, I will turn it over to Harmit to provide a financial overview of the quarter and our expectations for the remainder of the year. Harmit?

Harmit Singh
Executive VP & Chief Financial & Growth Officer

Thanks, Michelle. In quarter 3, we delivered strong financial results exceeding expectations across sales, gross margin, EBIT margin and EPS. We remain focused on establishing a strong track record of consistent execution and results.

The strategic transformation across our organization has enabled us to evolve into a higher-performing company with stronger revenue growth, expanded margins, improved cash flows and higher returns on invested capital.

Given the outperformance in quarter 3 and continued strong trends, we are also raising our revenue and EPS outlook for the year, despite incorporating higher tariffs than assumed in our previous guidance.

Now turning to our quarter 3 results. Net revenue grew 7%, reflecting the power of our diversified business model. International markets drove approximately 75% of our growth and the U.S. contributed 25%. This international strength reflects our continued expansion and brand resonance in key markets globally, while our U.S. business maintained solid underlying momentum.

By channel, growth was evenly balanced between wholesale and direct-to-consumer each growing and contributing roughly 50% of our revenue increase. This balanced performance underscores the success of our DTC-first strategy, while maintaining strong partnerships in wholesale.

By gender, Women's contributed approximately 40% of our growth with Men's accounting for the balance. We continued to execute against our strategy to capture greater share in our underpenetrated higher gross margin Women's segment, while a large Men's business continues to generate solid growth, as we fuel momentum in the category.

Turning to gross margin performance. We delivered another strong quarter with a quarter 3 record gross margin of 61.7% of net revenues, expanding 110 basis points versus the prior year, more than offsetting 80 basis points of tariff headwinds.

Three key drivers fuel the continued expansion. First, our structural business mix continues to evolve favorably with the accelerating shift towards higher-margin DTC, International and Women's category.

Second, targeted pricing actions we have taken across our assortment as well as higher full-price selling and reduced promotion levels in our direct-to-consumer channel as consumers continue to gravitate towards newness.

Third, approximately 50 basis points of the upside in gross margin was driven by foreign exchange. While we are judicially approaching pricing opportunities across our business, in quarter 3, we saw a significant increase in units, demonstrating healthy underlying demand for our brands.

I'm pleased to report that our adjusted SG&A performance came in line with our expectations, representing less than 50% of total revenue, over 150 basis points improvement from our first half run rate. The primary factors contributing to the increase in SG&A dollars includes higher performance-based compensation given the momentum in our business, costs associated with our store opening as well as expenses associated with the transformation of our distribution network.

The combination of robust gross margin and our disciplined approach to SG&A management delivered an adjusted EBIT margin of 11.8% and generated $0.34 of adjusted diluted EPS, both ahead of our expectations. Our focus on profitability as we accelerate growth has enabled us to grow both adjusted EBIT and adjusted diluted EPS, up approximately 25% to prior year on a year-to-date basis.

Now let's review the key highlights by segment. The Americas net revenues were up 7%. Our U.S. business was up 3%, delivering our fifth consecutive quarter of strong growth. DTC grew 6% and now represents over 40% of the U.S. market. U.S. wholesale net revenues were also up despite the challenges posed by the transition of our U.S. distribution centers.

Driven by broad-based strength across the region, LatAm has seen several consecutive quarters of double-digit growth, including Q3, which was up 23%. Americas' operating margin expanded 50 basis points, driven by gross margin and revenue leverage. Europe's net revenues were up 3%. All key markets delivered growth, led by a very strong performance in the U.K.

While weather impacted footfall in June and July, we exited the quarter with strong performance in August, and we continue to expect mid-single-digit growth in Europe for the year. Operating margin grew 80 basis points versus the prior year from strong gross margin expansion.

Asia's net revenues accelerated to up 12%. The segment saw double-digit growth in both DTC and wholesale. Operating margin increased 50 basis points to prior year. Asia is up 8% on a year-to-date basis, and operating margin for the year is up 40 basis points to prior year.

Turning to our shareholder returns program and the balance sheet. In the quarter, we returned $151 million to shareholders, a 118% increase versus last year. We've also closed the first phase of the Dockers sales. And with the proceeds, we have implemented $120 million accelerated share repurchase program and retired approximately 5 million shares with the remaining shares to be settled by the first quarter of 2026.

We have returned $283 million to shareholders year-to-date, which is substantially higher than our annual cash payout target. And for Q4, we declared a dividend of $0.14 per share, which is up 8% to prior year. We ended the quarter with reported inventory dollars up 12%, driven by purposeful investments ahead of the holiday and higher product costs than a year ago due to tariffs. In unit terms, inventory was up 8% versus last year. As of today, we have 70% of the product in the U.S. needed for holiday.

Before turning to guidance, let me briefly share our updated assumptions around tariffs. Our updated guidance reflects the latest tariff rates, which include 30% for China and an increase to approximately 20% for the rest of the world. This is higher than our last assumption. And as a result, we estimate the full year gross impact of tariffs before mitigation to be approximately a 70 basis point headwind to gross margin compared to 50 basis points previously.

However, given the Q3 results and after mitigation, we continue to expect only a 20 basis point impact to gross margin. This translates to a $0.02 to $0.03 impact to adjusted diluted EPS, unchanged from last quarter's guidance. As respect to quarter 4, this equates to an 80 basis point headwind to gross margin and a $0.03 impact to adjusted diluted EPS.

Looking to 2026, we are continuing to take actions to offset the impact of tariffs. As a reminder, these mitigation initiatives include promotion optimization, targeted pricing actions, vendor negotiation and further supply chain diversification.

Now, I will turn to our outlook for quarter 4 and then cover the full year. While we are taking a prudent approach to our outlook given the complex macro environment and the absence of the 53rd week, which contributed 4 points to the top line in quarter 4 of 2024, we remain confident in the underlying strength and momentum of our business.

In quarter 4, we expect organic net revenue growth to be up approximately 1%. And on a 2-year stack, this equates to 9% organic growth. Reported net revenues are expected to be down approximately 3% because of noncomparable items, including the 53rd week, Denizen and footwear, which are no longer included in the revenue base.

Gross margin is expected to contract approximately 100 basis points in quarter 4, driven by tariffs as well as the impact of the 53rd week, and we expect adjusted EBIT margin to be in the range of 12.4% to 12.6%. We expect the tax rate to be in the low 20s, higher than a year ago and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $0.36 to $0.38.

For the full year, we are taking our revenues up by approximately 1 percentage point and EPS by $0.02. We now expect reported net revenue growth of approximately 3% for the year, and we have increased our expectations for organic net revenues to approximately 6% up from prior year.

We now expect gross margin to expand 100 basis points for the full year, up from the 80 basis points stated in our prior guidance, including the incremental drag from tariffs. We continue to expect adjusted SG&A as a percentage of revenue to end the year at around 50% and adjusted EBIT margin to be in the range of 11.4% to 11.6%.

As we have previously shared, we continue to expect the tax rate to be about 23%. And we are raising our full year adjusted diluted EPS range by $0.02 to $1.27 to $1.32 for the full year.

In closing, our 4 consecutive quarters of high single-digit growth and raised revenue expectations underscore the strength and resilience of our business. As we accelerate profitable growth, we are transforming into a best-in-class DTC-first denim lifestyle retailer, unlocking new opportunities and delivering greater value for our shareholders.

Our disciplined execution and agility have enabled us to deliver 14 consecutive quarters of DTC comp sales, expand margins, drive cash flow and return significant capital to our shareholders, including the recent ASR and our growing dividend.

With our strategic focus on high-growth segments: Tops, Women's, International and DTC, we see a long runway of profitable growth ahead.

Thank you for your continued trust and support. We are more confident than ever in our future. I will now open up the line for Q&A.