LVMH Moët Hennessy - Louis Vuitton, Société Européenne (LV:CA) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 12:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Bernard Arnault - Chairman & CEO
Cecile Cabanis - Chief Financial Officer
Stéphane Bianchi

Conference Call Participants

Antoine Belge - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Erwan Rambourg - HSBC Global Investment Research
Luca Solca - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Edouard Aubin - Morgan Stanley, Research Division

Presentation

Bernard Arnault
Chairman & CEO

Good evening. I'm delighted to present to you the figures for 2025 to begin with a good piece of news. I think we'll make it through the winter. Some commentators had concerns, especially some journalists. I believe we can say more seriously that the results of the group are solid in a rather challenging, disrupted climate economically from the geopolitical standpoint, but we've managed to get through this period. 2026 won't be simple either, but one thing at a time.

So revenue, just over EUR 80 billion. Let's state that it's twice what it was 10 years ago. Organic growth, slightly negative on the year, but positive in the second half. Our CFO will tell you more about the figures.

An operating margin of 22%, way above the average of the last 20 years, a negative foreign exchange impact, an impact that I don't think is going to improve this year for various reasons. And the economic context that is changing swiftly, disrupted, sometimes unforeseeable. And in spite of that, through management efforts, and I'd like to thank the Executive Committee that is with us here this evening for the efforts undertaken both in order to expand the business and to contain costs because -- and this is a metric that is key for us.

Cash flow is up. And in spite of everything that is thrown it is, including the taxes that were set to disappear, but unfortunately won't disappear. We can return to that if there are questions.

But operating free cash flow reaches EUR 11.3 billion. You'll see looking in greater detail the figures that we have an improvement in the trend across our activities. And this is maintained by the strong desirability of our brands, numerous initiatives taken across our businesses.

I'd cite here in no particular order, Vuitton with Pietro Beccari, who has been heading up that business for years at my side in a masterly fashion, and we've taken a great many initiatives. The most prominent and the most outstanding was the opening in Shanghai and I visited a few a while back of the Vuitton Ship museum, that's the ship, not at sea, but on a square that's very successful, very successful for the brand because every week, I think there are about 100,000 people around that ship. Inside, it's magnificent, very refined, high-quality craftsmanship constructed and crafted by the Vuitton workshops and craftsman.

We've also expanded the Dior brand considerably. Last year, we opened 2 houses in the United States, one in New York and one in Los Angeles. Highly creative and refined but also very successful. And more recently, we opened a Maison Dior also in Beijing next to a Vuitton house. So a lot of activity, a lot of creation.

Before going into the specific details of the various activities, I'd like to emphasize here the new progress in the group's commitments, for us it's of prime importance. You have the table on the screen showing everything we're achieving in a great many important areas, climate, biodiversity, the commitment and engagement of our employees.

Well, the engagement, the road map balance '21, '25 is very positive. We've reached all the commitments. Equal opportunities that's borne fruit. Those initiatives, 50% of women in key positions within the group.

Another key initiative, the Institute of Trades of Excellence to preserve craftsmanship has trained over 3,800 apprentices since it was established on the environment. I'll be able to take your questions on that.

The group's leadership was once again recognized because in the CDP, the Carbon Disclosure Project, we've reached the best score, Triple A.

Now circular design, 41% is materials used to make the Maisons' products now sourced through the recycling progress (sic) [ process ]. Recycling raw materials is up, and we've remained mobilized to protect and regenerate all our ecosystems.

Let's now move to a brief but more detailed review of our business groups. Firstly, Wines & Spirits. In Wines & Spirits, our brands are displaying good resilience in a challenging context, difficult, in particular for cognac, which both in China and the United States is affected by tariffs that have exceeded our forecast. So for cognac, we're facing a difficulty during -- due to that development, but we're addressing it. We're trying to reach agreements. We've made progress with China. I hope we'll make progress with the United States, if international relations are restored and that's to be hoped for.

And champagne is holding up well in market that is less buoyant. Perhaps there were fewer celebrations in 2025. But Veuve Clicquot in the largest market, United States and Asia, is growing in volume terms. And also a good year from Moët & Chandon, once again benefiting from high visibility. We've resumed the partnership with Formula 1 Grand Prix races and that's very promising for Moët & Chandon that celebrates every Formula 1 Grand Prix with a bottle of our champagne.

Rose wines are also growing. Well, that was a good acquisition. It wasn't the case of all acquisitions, but that was particularly felicitous. So we're way out in front and we're leader for Rose Wine, be it Château d'Esclans, Minuty or Galoupet. Those -- Galoupet -- those 3 acquisitions are faring very well. As I said, it's a bit more challenging for cognac and that explains the results that you've seen for that business.

Moving now to Fashion & Leather Goods. The event of the week was the Dior show of Haute Couture. Everyone was wondering how it was going to unfold. We have a great creative artist that's never done Couture. Will he be able to do that? We attended the show yesterday. It was absolutely amazing. There were even spectators who were in tears. So moved were they by the creativity, the quality, the craftsmanship of the clothes.

And John Galliano, the former creative artist of the house, whom we invited, who worked previously with Mr. Toledano, very successful too. Well, he was particularly moved to see such a success remotely and so Dior at the start of this year is fully benefiting from this creative renewal that is producing clothes for both men and women. It's the first time since Christian Dior that we have a creative director who produces all these products. And they're very much in demand at the start of the year. We'll see a bit last. We must never be too optimistic, but it's off to a good start.

Vuitton, there again last week, very fine shows by Pharrell Williams, with highly wearable clothes that's always desirable. Sometimes, it drifts off a bit, but these were truly clothes that we wanted to buy and some amazing Vuitton trunks. I won't give you the price. You may not believe this, what's more that most of them have been sold. There's some extraordinary cases, trunks, some of them produced by the same craftspeople who did the stained glass windows of Notre-Dame, and that's a truly unique show. So that was for the events held this week.

Let's also mention that in 2025, Louis Vuitton launched a makeup range that started off well after continuous success and very commendable with perfumes that were created by a great creator, Mr. Cavallier, and continues without interruption to deliver double-digit growth. Yes, we can say that. It's no secret, and his perfumes are quite successful and only sold in Dior stores.

So for Fashion & Leather Goods, yes, we also have hired new designers last year. At Celine with the American Creative Director, Michael Rider who is off to a good start. At Loewe, since Jonathan left for Dior, we have Jack and Lazaro, who previously were in the United States. That's off to a good start. And at Fendi, Maria Grazia left Dior to join Fendi. She wanted to go back to Rome and there she is in the first -- the first show is going to be held in a fortnight, we'll see what -- but I'm very hopeful. So all that's organized.

Let's mention a great success, Loro Piana that continues to go from strength to strength. We have just one problem at Loro Piana that we have to slow the growth. We don't want to go too fast because the quality of products must be maintained, and soon, it gets a bit carried away. We slowed down Loro Piana. I don't know if we've been up but we've just bought a stake of the partners who've been with us since the start. The [indiscernible] Piji Loro Piana, members of their family. We wanted to buy -- we bought a section, they wanted to keep a stake. I think we had 85%. So we acquired half the investment, half their stake because it's good to their family, they're highly connected with the manufacturing techniques, places in the world where we can source excellent products.

Piji Loro Piana goes regularly to Peru to look after the vicuña. We actually saved that species that was totally in decline. And thanks to that activity, I think we have a few thousand hectares in Peru, where we breed the vicuña.Very happy to be there. Otherwise, they would have been extinct. And so we can produce great products with those animals.

Here, we have some numbers experts, and I just want to say that the valuation at which we acquired the shares of our partners, their investment, I think is equal to 10x or 5x perhaps the value of their initial stage. In other words, when we acquired the company, I think we paid to EUR 2 billion for it, right? And today, it's worth about EUR 10 billion. That's about the ratio.

I'm saying that you can talk to other brands when they team up with us. Firstly, the company's progress and they progress very well in maintaining their heritage and the partners. The family partners do get a very good deal. If you could spread the word, that would be useful.

I think I've covered everything. Now I can move to Perfumes & Cosmetics. Well, firstly, Parfums Christian Dior continues to innovate products that the large part world leaders. The Sauvage, the world's best-selling men's fragrance, relaunched some 10 years ago, and far and away, the world's leading men's fragrance. Also makeup and lipstick, Dior, the leading luxury lipsticks globally in the world. One Dior lipstick is sold every 2 seconds. That's a lot of lipstick and they're all manufactured in France with an R&D center that's one of the best in the world, if not the best for cosmetics.

We have other activities with other brands that are less prestigious even if they're less -- they're smaller, less international such as Guerlain. Also has great products. I'm going to answer questions on that if there are any.

Let's move to Watches & Jewelry. Watches & Jewelry, still on more recent acquisition, Tiffany that continues a very impressive record. Tiffany had excellent products, but we redirected the house so that it can develop in jewelry and high jewelry. Fewer silver products, and we gradually renovated and were far from over the rolling out the new store concepts. And Tiffany, if we continue like that, perhaps we'll have to wait another 5 to 10 years, is likely to become the world's leading jewelry brand, which is no mean feat if we get there. But for the time being, we've opened, for example, a new Tiffany store in Tokyo at the end of last year. That was a huge success. It's got off to a very positive start.

Bvlgari at the end of the year posted some quite outstanding figures. You're familiar with the products, the Serpenti, Diva, et cetera, and all these products are very successful. They're iconic and very promising for next year because jewelry is an area, today, we see this in our main peers. Excellent. Cartier is a great company, is expanding well. It's a promising sector. We're also developing jewelry very actively at Louis Vuitton. And it has great potential. You'll see when we opened the store on the Champs-Elysees.

Lastly, Watches. With TAG Heuer, that is also developing very successfully. TAG Heuer benefits like what it does with the Formula 1. It's the official timekeeper for all Formula 1s. Hublot, Zenith, Chaumet have also broader products, notably Hublot with the latest Big Bang collection that's very successful.

Final business that I'd like to mention, Selective Retailing. There are the 2 main department stores in Paris, Le Bon Marché and La Samaritaine. I won't go into detail, but they are iconic stores, and stores that were -- La Samaritaine, not so well, but it's recovering and we're changing the way it was managed because up until about a year ago, it was in conjunction with DFS. It was geared more to the duty-free customers. We're trying to manage that, thanks to Mr. Wagner, like the Bon Marché, they obtained the same results as Le Bon Marché. That will be great. And we're off to a good start.

But the outstanding business brought to Selective Retailing, is Sephora. Well, Sephora in the space of a few years, we acquired it back in '98 or '99, has become the unchallenged world leader for the retailing of cosmetic products, Selective Retailing worldwide.

What's very interesting is we only cover a very small portion of the world. So everything remains to be done even if we're posting very significant revenue. I won't let that secret out. Very good profitability, good growth. So we're very hopeful. [ Mr. Marc ] is managing that in a masterly fashion. DFS, less interesting. We've sold most of it. We'll continue to exit slowly, but surely.

What can we say briefly about 2026, the outlook? I always say that in our businesses, I am optimistic in the medium term. But short term, it's very difficult to provide a serious forecast, so many events and the pace of decisions taken left and right in the various countries. It's extremely difficult control all these geoeconomic impacts on our companies.

One thing I'm sure of is that the desire for high-quality products goes hand-in-hand with growing living standards in the world. And that's set to continue even though there are up and downs in certain countries. Some countries that are faring left well, but the global trend is there. So long term, we can be optimistic. And this year, there's no doubt that with continued geopolitical crisis with economic uncertainty, with the policy that certain countries, our own that are against companies to tax them to the hilt and create unemployment. I think there's a reason to be somewhat reserved.

So we'll apply the same technique as in 2025. We'll create some very fine products and sell them worldwide, open up fine floors and manage things very closely, contain costs, do what we've done this year, so that in 2026, cash flow is also up.

Once again, I'd like to that all employees who are with us this evening. This success is down to them. We're confident in the future. I'd like to conclude by saying that one of the advantage of the group is that we're a family group. Family groups and the analysts may not like this, but a family group isn't riveted to the quarterly results. It invests medium term. We create product for the long term and we're not mesmerized by what's going to happen in the coming quarter, even if it's important, but we take the long-term view for the time being. It has stood us in good stead. That's something I don't know if it will please observe as a family group has about 50% of LVMH's capital.

And since now we're at the start of a new year were entitled to acquire a bit more. We were blocked up till now at the maximum. And this year, we'll cross the 50% threshold. So we'll own over 50% of the share capital. So we believe in what we do and we're showing it in that way.

Thank you very much. Madame Cabanis, our Chief Financial officer will go into greater detail than I have for the 2025 financials. Thank you.

Cecile Cabanis
Chief Financial Officer

Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for being here. So let's look into the financial aspects for 2025 in more detail. Some key figures. I shall not remain too long on this slide because Mr. Arnault has given you explanation.

So a few comments on the sales. We're stable or slightly down. Organic growth, minus 1% over the year but an improvement in H2 because we renewed with organic growth to the tune of plus 1% in H2. For the year as a whole, sales were down 5% at current exchange rate and published data because there was a negative currency effect. I mean of course, the main invoicing currencies, the dollar, renminbi and yen were all down.

Operating profit was down 9%, a significant portion, indeed, most of it, indeed, most of the decline is due to currency effects. And as Mr. Arnault pointed out, sound financial position. Free cash flow standing at EUR 11.3 billion, reflecting the discipline that our teams were able to display in a less favorable environment. Cash flow was up 8%, even though profit itself was down.

If you look at the details, starting with sales themselves, minus 5% in published data. There was a currency effect of 3%. The currency effect was not homogeneous over the year. As you remember, we started off in Q1 with a plus 3% positive effect, therefore. And in Q4, the currency effect was negative to the tune of minus 6%. So you have an average over the year, but the -- we're ending the year with a negative effect, 6%. So we have to monitor exchange rates for the rest of the year. And we don't have much of a scope effect. This was just organic growth.

Regarding the geographic balance, things have not changed in main territories, namely in the United States, Europe and Asia account for 26% of our sales. Japan is slightly down to 8% and other countries are up by 1 point to 14%, with the Middle East displaying significant growth.

Looking now at sales by region over the year. On a quarterly basis, you start with the 2 ends, the U.S. and Europe. These 2 markets were stable, a slight decline in Europe, but they have a reverse curve. In H1, there was more growth in Europe because the dollar was high and tourists were buying more in Europe. And there was a reverse trend in H2 because the dollar became cheaper and then people were buying in America itself.

We have a comparison -- a basis of comparison, which explains the difference in Japan. So we had also a favorable starting basis of comparison in the previous year, but not as extreme. And Asia other than Japan enjoyed a similar development, slightly down over the year.

If you look at the organic growth, we have Wines & Spirits down in organic numbers, down 5%. Likewise, Fashion & Leather Good. We have 3% and 4%, respectively, for Watches & Jewelry and Selective Retailing. And if you look at the other side of the screen, you find that the -- well, if you compare H1 and H2, you find that there was a significant acceleration for most of our businesses between H1 and H2.

If you look at organic growth by quarter and by business. Here we have an improvement of organic trends for most businesses in H2. Wines & Spirits, champagnes sales were resilient. Cognac and indeed spirits in general were down, and that is because of the specific circumstances in the U.S.

Fashion & Leather Goods enjoyed a significant improvement starting in Q3, driven by local customers and a resumption of growth in Asia, a less strong basis of comparison for Japan and some areas of improvement, pockets of improvement, reflecting specific initiatives, new creative initiatives, but also outstanding Louis Vuitton stores and other initiatives taken by all the houses.

On Watches & Jewelry, there was a significant acceleration in H2, especially in Q3, we had a resumption of growth for the Watches business with an acceleration of Bvlgari, but also a transformation plan on Tiffany, which is now bearing fruit. There's still the weight of legacy, but we are gaining ground quarter-after-quarter.

Selective Retailing has enjoyed, of course, Sephora's significant growth in H2, and Perfume & Cosmetics were stable, with a very sustained innovation policy, and we were highly selective in our retailing business, and that made a big difference on our profits.

If you look at the profit from recurring operations, so we're slightly down 9% in published data. I was saying earlier on that most of the negative effect was currency effect and you have the illustration right there. We have a EUR 1 billion effect due to exchange rate fluctuations. Without this, the decline would only be 4% on profit from recurring operations.

Regarding the various business lines and again on current operating profit. On Wines & Spirits, no surprises there. That is the one business suffering the strongest decline. There was a currency effect. There's also lower volumes and lower mix. And the first effects of trade tensions with China and the U.S.

Fashion & Leather Goods also significantly down, mostly because of the currency effect together with lower sales, but profit from recurring operations sitting at 35%, very high and much higher than the group's long-term history.

Watches & Jewelry displayed profit from recurring operations stable, even though there's a significant currency effect and other headwinds related to tariffs and the price of gold. And the cost of Tiffany's transformation, significant capital expenditure there. But that plan is, as I said, bearing fruit.

Perfumes & Cosmetics, as I was saying earlier on, there is an improvement up 8%. So there's a double positive effect, a, we're being very selective in investment to remain -- to keep our brands attractive, and there was significant work on the models' effectiveness, and that's certainly paid off.

And then a significant positive effect on Selective Retailing. There are 2 effects there. As I said, Sephora's performance, which has been growing both in terms of volume and margins. So a double effect there. But also, we were able to redress the balance for DFS. You may remember that we were losing hundreds of millions of euros on DFS and now we are breaking even at long last.

And then if you look at the structure of our profits proper, starting with the gross margin is slightly down, down 80 basis points over the year, but in H2, it was up EUR 40 billion. The 2 reasons for that. We found on a number of categories, there was some organic growth that made it possible to absorb costs. And there are a number of nonrecurring factors that we had in 2024. The currency effect at the end of the year was higher than it was in H1, but the improvement of organic profit more than compensated that negative effect.

Regarding operating expenses, they were down 4%. That reflects the agility, the responsiveness, the discipline of our team in a less favorable environment, but also our ability to manage costs and be more selective in our expenses.

If you look at the development, general marketing expenses or selling expenses, you have selling and marketing, you have -- selling expenses were stable on a constant rate basis. Marketing expenses were down. But if you look at the ratio over the revenue, the ratio remained stable regarding marketing expenses.

And then G&A were down 5%. There's a double effect there. There was, well, a cost saving discipline and then some costs of 2024 were nonrecurring, in particular, the Olympic Games that, of course, was nonrecurrent. And now if you look at all that, the profit from recurring operations stood at minus 9% at EUR 17.7 billion.

If you look at other operating income and expenses, well, by definition, these are not recurring expenses. Now here, you have mostly costs related to the disposal of Greater China for DFS and a number of other markets for DFS. Now that is an accounting expense. It has no cash effect.

The financial profit, I'll get back to that in a moment, financial expense rather. And then our tax stood at EUR 5.5 billion, up 4 percentage points, and that is, of course, that's the effect of the supposedly exceptional tax that was -- that is now being renewed. Anyway, there is this special tax in France for big companies. Anyway, the net profit group share stood at EUR 10.9 billion, down 13%.

Net result, now they are 4 lines there. The cost of net debt of EUR 348 million. So that was down well, lower rates but also lower volumes of debt outstanding for the year. The interest on lease liabilities, and that is the accretion expense, and that's because of an accounting standard that is, as you may remember, IFRS 16. And because rates were up, that accretion expense was up.

The cost of our currency hedging was stable, slightly increased in the context of highly volatile exchange rates. And of course, there are some currencies that suffered a decline vis-a-vis the euro.

And then there is another issue of volatility in our net profit and that is the fair value adjustment of our financial assets. Now on these assets, there's a mark-to-market in accounting terms. So we have this adjustment at 31 December. There was an EUR 800 million appreciation. So this has a positive effect on the result. Now these are unrealized capital gains. These are -- this is an accounting exercise, but this issue comes up, we assess these capital gains or losses, but this has no economic or cash effect.

On the balance sheet, nothing new. The changes in exchange rates had an effect on most items of the balance sheet because they are denominated in euros, both on the assets and liability side and because there was no major operation, very few mergers or acquisitions, there's not much. Of course, there was the acquisition in Loro Piana, but we mentioned that earlier. Other than that, nothing to mention.

So a few words about operating free cash flow. As we said early on, it stood at EUR 11.3 billion, up 8%, even though profits were down, and that is because as you can see, we managed our WCR very carefully. We're very selective on capital expenditure.

On the tax paid, this is down. That reflects the effects of provisional tax payments and the settlement of the final tax, but of course, lower profit, but there was the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. You may remember that changed the depreciation schedule, and this had a positive cash effect for us.

Capital expenditure accounted for 5.7% of sales. So this is in line with our long-term historic average. And then, of course, there was a significant generation of cash flow, reflecting our financial soundness, but also the group's responsiveness. We were able to generate more than adequate cash flow in a less favorable environment while still keeping capital expenditure where it should be to remain competitive.

Now as you can see, the net debt was down in 2025 for the third year running standing at EUR 6.9 billion, so slightly below 10% and indeed in line with the year 2020, that was the year before we acquired Tiffany.

And then finally, and this will conclude my presentation. We will propose at the AGM in April, a dividend of EUR 13 per share. This is stable compared to last year. As you know, the group's dividend policy is to maintain a dividend at a stable level when we face challenging times.

And of course, when we have more favorable periods of growth, then, of course, the dividend grow in line with our profits. There was an interim dividend of EUR 5.5 in December. The balance will be EUR 7.5 that will be paid out April. Thank you for your attention.

