Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Daniel Briggs - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Robert Goldstein - Chairman, CEO & Treasurer
Patrick Dumont - President, COO & Director
Kwan Chum - President, CEO & Executive Director

Conference Call Participants

Daniel Politzer - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Elizabeth Dove - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Raymond Bowers - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
George Choi - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Shaun Kelley - BofA Securities, Research Division
Stephen Grambling - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
David Katz - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Joseph Stauff - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Steven Wieczynski - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
John DeCree - CBRE Securities, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Sands Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Mr. Daniel Briggs, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at Sands. Sir, the floor is yours.

Daniel Briggs
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you. Joining the call today are Rob Goldstein, our Chairman and CEO; Patrick Dumont, our President and Chief Operating Officer; Dr. Wilfred Wong, Executive Vice President, Sands China; and Grant Chum, CEO and President of Sands China and EVP of Asia operations.

Today's conference call will contain forward-looking statements. We will be making those statements under the safe harbor provision of federal securities laws. The language on forward-looking statements included in our press release also applies to our comments made on the call. The company's actual results may differ materially from the results reflected in those forward-looking statements.

In addition, we will discuss non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our press release. We have posted an earnings presentation on our website. We will refer to that presentation during the call. [Operator Instructions] This presentation is being recorded.

I'll now turn the call over to Rob.

Robert Goldstein
Chairman, CEO & Treasurer

Thank you, Dan, and good afternoon. Thank you for joining us. Marina Bay Sands has delivered EBITDA of $806 million, simply the greatest quarter in the history of casino hotels. We exceeded $2.9 billion of EBITDA this year. Mass gaming and slot win exceeded $951 million this quarter, which is up 118% in Q4 in 2019, up 27% from Q4 last year. Of course, we are delighted with the results and look forward to more this year.

This is an extraordinary market. We have built the product to maximize the opportunity. The question is how much further can we go in the next 2 years. There has never been a building, to my knowledge, that delivered these types of results.

Macao delivered $608 million of EBITDA for the quarter, and we are disappointed with that EBITDA number. However, mass market revenue did exceeded 25% this quarter of share, up 23.6% in the first quarter of 2025. Macao market is driven by the premium segment which is a highly competitive market. There may be a day when base mass recovers, and we will excel when that day comes, but until then, we will continue to focus on our ability to make the assets work harder to achieve $700 million per quarter. The team is in the right place, and we will deliver better results in 2026.

So let's hear it from Patrick.

Patrick Dumont
President, COO & Director

Thanks, Rob. Macao EBITDA was $608 million. If we had held as expected in our rolling program, our EBITDA would have been lower by $26 million. When adjusted for higher-than-expected hold of the rolling segment, our EBITDA margin for the Macao portfolio of properties would have been 28.9%, down 390 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of 2024.

We are focused on delivering revenue and cash flow growth across the portfolio. Margin at The Venetian was 32.3%, while margin at the Londoner was 28.8%. We expect growth in EBITDA as revenue to grow. We will use our scale and product advantages, together with targeted incentives, to better address every market segment. We see opportunity in every segment at every property in the portfolio.

In Singapore, Marina Bay Sands EBITDA for the quarter was $806 million at a margin of 50.3%. If we had held as expected in our rolling program, our EBITDA would have been lower by $45 million. The record financial results at MBS reflect the impact of high-quality investment in market-leading product, world-class service and the growth in high-value tourism.

Turning to our program to return capital to shareholders. We repurchased $500 million of LVS stock during the quarter. We also paid our recurring quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share. We believe repurchases of LVS equity through our share repurchase program will be meaningfully accretive to the company and its shareholders over the long term.

During the fourth quarter, we purchased $66 million of SCL stock, increasing the company's ownership percentage of SCL to 74.8% as of December 31, 2025. We continue to see value in both names. We look forward to continuing to utilize the company's share repurchase program to increase returns to shareholders.

Thanks again for joining the call today. Now let's take questions.

