Mastercard Incorporated (MA) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Devin Corr - Executive Vice President of Investor Relations
Michael Miebach - CEO & Director
Sachin Mehra - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

William Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Sanjay Sakhrani - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Adam Frisch - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Ramsey El-Assal
Craig Maurer - Financial Technology Partners LP
Tien-Tsin Huang - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Darrin Peller - Wolfe Research, LLC
Trevor Williams - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Harshita Rawat - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Bryan Keane - Citigroup Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Julianne, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Mastercard Incorporated Q4 and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

Mr. Devin Corr, Head of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.

Devin Corr
Executive Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Julianne. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter 2025 earnings call. With me today are Michael Miebach, our Chief Executive Officer; and Sachin Mehra, our Chief Financial Officer. Following comments from Michael and Sachin, the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&A session. It is only then that the queue will open for questions. You can access our earnings release, supplemental performance data and the slide deck that accompany this call in the Investor Relations section of our website, mastercard.com.

Additionally, the release was furnished with the SEC earlier this morning. Our comments today regarding our financial results will be on a non-GAAP currency-neutral basis unless otherwise noted. Both the release and the slide deck include reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP reported amounts.

Finally, as set forth in more detail in our earnings release, I would like to remind everyone that today's call will include forward-looking statements regarding Mastercard's future performance. Actual performance could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our earnings release and in our recent SEC filings. A replay of this call will be posted on our website for 30 days.

With that, I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Michael Miebach.

Michael Miebach
CEO & Director

Thank you, Devin. Good morning, everyone. There was a lot of activity to close out 2025, and it's been a fast-paced start to the new year. In that spirit, let's jump right in.

My headline for you today, we continue to deliver and 2025 was another very strong year. For the fourth quarter, net revenues were up 15% overall with value-added services and solutions net revenue up 22% versus a year ago on a non-GAAP currency-neutral basis.

Our consistently solid performance is driven by several factors. First, we are focused. Our strategy is clear, and we're executing against it. We're making strong progress against each of our strategic pillars and benefiting from the virtuous cycle across our payment network and services offerings. Second, we're innovative and agile. We spearhead the payments evolution. At the same time, environments shift, customer needs, technology, regulation, so we adapt and we prioritize ensuring we have the right capabilities and skill sets.

Recently, we completed a strategic review of our business. This will result in reductions in some areas and roles but lead to further investment and increased focus in others. And finally, we're diversified and differentiated. Our business extends across geographies, spend categories and payment adjacencies. The diversification of our business means we benefit from a wide range of growth drivers, which make us more resilient.

As we enter 2026, geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty persists. We will continue to monitor and work to navigate just as we have successfully done in the past. But for now, we remain optimistic and confident in our execution and the fundamentals of our business.

Looking back at 2025, we won hundreds of new issuing deals and expansions globally. This doesn't just happen. It is the result of our dedicated sales force, technology and differentiated value we deliver to our customers. I will share a few highlights from this past quarter.

In the U.S. and Canada, we extended our long-standing partnership with Capital One, where we renewed our partnership in credit, and we will be the network for a large portion of newly acquired credit accounts. And across their business, Capital One will continue to use several of Mastercard's services. In Turkey, Yapi Kredi will migrate nearly 10 million cards across their consumer credit, debit and affluent portfolios to Mastercard. Our consulting and marketing services will be used to support the end-to-end portfolio conversion.

In Latin America, Scotiabank chose Mastercard as their network partner in Mexico, Chile and Uruguay. Why? They see Mastercard's security, loyalty and analytics offerings as key to fueling their growth. This builds up on our strong relationship with the bank in Peru and the Caribbean markets. In South Africa, our modernized real-time payment switch is a key factor in us signing exclusive deals with several players in the market, including Nedbank and Standard Bank. These wins position us to increase our share in the market by multiple points. And we continue to win in affluent, so important. We have secured more than 60 new affluent programs in 2025 across the world. Our drumbeat of wins continued this quarter with new deals secured with [ PickPay, Zikub, Sis Prime ] in Brazil and Nedbank in South Africa, which I just mentioned.

We're seeing the same momentum in co-brands with leading merchants and digital players. Earlier this month, it was announced that Mastercard will continue to be the exclusive network for the Apple Card, which will transition to JPMorgan Chase as the issuer in approximately 24 months. We supported the launch of this industry-leading co-brand nearly 7 years ago, and we are excited to support its continued success. We won the Walmart and Sam's Club co-brands in Mexico in partnership with Invex Banco. We renewed our partnership with Barclays, supporting its U.S. co-branded card programs and its Tesco Bank card programs in the U.K. And we partnered with Amazon and Emirates Islamic to launch the Amazon credit card in the UAE.

As I said, we remain focused on driving long-term growth across each of our strategic pillars. In consumer payments, this quarter was about continued innovation and focus on driving incremental growth. Our drumbeat of wins I just mentioned shows that Mastercard is preferred over alternative networks. Banks chose Mastercard because of our global acceptance, our consumer protections, strong security and digital capabilities. It's also about our dedicated teams and our commitment to driving mutual growth. We work with our existing customers to optimize their portfolios. By using our advanced analytics and AI capabilities, we help clients activate their cardholders, drive top-of-wallet behavior and increase approval rates, and it works. We're driving more transactions of our network and in key categories, think digital or cross-border.

And looking at digital commerce alone, we've seen approval rates increase by 270 basis points in the last 5 years. Now think about what that means when applied to Mastercard's global payment network. Last year alone, we switched more than 175 billion transactions. That's a lot of potential to further optimize. We now switch more than 70% of all Mastercard transactions globally, an increase of 10% since 2020. More switched transactions result in more data and more opportunity to sell services and so on, all of which allows us to help our partners drive top and bottom line growth, enable seamless and secure experiences for our cardholders. This is the virtuous cycle in motion.

The payments industry continues to evolve. Stablecoins and agentic commerce bring new choices to pay and get paid, and we are leaning in, just as we have with neobanks, digital wallets and installments and so on. For us, stablecoins and agentic commerce are emerging opportunities, ones where Mastercard has a natural role to play. We have been active in the digital asset space for over a decade. Most use cases for crypto and stablecoin today are for trading and the like. For us, it is another currency we can support within our network. And we've made good traction enabling the purchase of these assets, facilitating transactions and supporting stablecoin for settlement over our network. Trust, interoperability and global acceptance are key in all payments. That's where we come in.

This quarter, we have supported co-brand partners such as Meta Mask as they scale across geographies. We partnered with co-brand partners to extend their offerings to new customer types. Gemini brings their success in the digital asset space to launch the first business-focused stablecoin co-brand. And we continue to expand our settlement capabilities, now working with Ripple.

Moving on to Agentic Commerce, where AI-powered agents assist or act on behalf of consumers throughout their commerce journeys. For us, Agentic Commerce represents another avenue to enable payment choice with the same trust that we always deliver. It's early days, but we are ready. You remember, last year, we launched Mastercard Agent Pay, a framework designed to foster trust in Agentic transactions. We have now enabled our U.S. issuers to participate in Agent Pay, and we are working to enable our global issuer base by the end of the first quarter. As more agents come on board, there will be more opportunities for consumers to experience a truly seamless commerce experience. We're actively working with ecosystem participants to adopt Agentic Commerce across all regions.

I'll share a few highlights from this quarter. In Asia, we're partnering with Anthem on card-based tokenized payment solutions for Agentic payments. In the U.K., we're consulting clients such as Lloyds Banking Group, Elavon and Santander on Agentic Commerce innovations. And in the UAE, we're piloting Agentic payments with the leading retail and entertainment group, Majid Al Futtaim. And with banks, merchants and digital players, we continue to position them for success in this new era of commerce, whether it be through consulting, security, data-driven insights or new loyalty programs, we are there.

Moving to commercial and new payment flows, one of our 3 strategic priorities. In 2025, our commercial credit and debit volumes represented 13% of our total GDV and grew at 11% year-over-year on a local currency basis. That's a clear reinforcement that our differentiated value propositions and broad-based partnerships are driving meaningful results. In commercial point-of-sale and invoice-based payment flows, our offerings are designed to meet corporate demands for more efficient, data-rich and secure transactions. We continue to expand usage of our virtual cards by enabling transactions to be initiated within B2B and T&E platforms. Mastercard's Commercial Express program simplifies the integration and onboarding. This quarter, Emburse, a leading T&E platform and BMO and Huntington Bank were the latest issuers to participate.

Differentiated solutions benefit our customers and that has translated into significant wins. This quarter, we renewed our global partnership with WEX and extended our partnership with Barclays in the U.K. and across Europe. Also, we partnered with Coupa, a leading business spend management platform to launch the Coupa Mastercard. Together, we are enabling virtual card payments across the entire customer base, which spans millions of buyers and suppliers globally.

There's much more than winning share. We're actively working to capture the sizable secular opportunity. Small businesses represent more than half of the cash and check opportunity in commercial point of sale that we outlined at our Investor Day. Given the broad-based diversity of the small business segment, we are working across banks and nonbank partners to serve this segment. It benefits our partners, Mastercard in the overall economy.

This quarter, we extended our partnerships with Intesa Sanpaolo to drive greater small business issuance in Italy. We're partnering with L'Oreal to issue small business cards across Latin America, our first market launch is a co-brand card with Clara for salon owners in Mexico. This is a prime example of how we are using a vertical approach to partner with large-scale players to capture untapped payment flows.

Growth through differentiated value and broad-based partnership continues for Mastercard Move, our disbursements and remittances capability. Now with more than 17 billion endpoints available, Mastercard Move is positioned to be the money movement platform with the greatest reach in the industry. Mastercard Move recipients have the option to receive funds across a variety of endpoints, including, but not limited to, bank accounts, debit cards and digital wallets and cash if you want to. We continue to expand our network reach just recently by enabling bank account deposits in Bangladesh. By expanding digital wallets and endpoints in the Philippines through our partnership with GCash and in China through our partnership with Tenpay Global for Weixin Pay and with stablecoin wallets through our partnership with [indiscernible].

Our expanded reach and endpoint options are resonating with customers. This quarter, we partnered with Banco Ripley, a subsidiary of the Ripley Corporation, one of the largest retail companies in South America to offer Mastercard cross-border services to their customers in Chile and Peru. We also partnered with Capital Bank, a leading neobank in Mexico, which is leveraging Mastercard and Corpay's cross-border payment solutions. Our Mastercard Move capability has demonstrated consistently strong transaction growth. In quarter 4 2025 and full year 2025, we saw transaction growth exceeding 35% versus a year ago. Our extensive reach and market adoption position us well going forward.

Turning to value-add services and solutions. We delivered strong performance in 2025 with full year net revenue growth of 21% or 18% excluding acquisitions year-over-year on a currency-neutral basis. This growth was broad-based with consistently strong growth across regions and product groups. Our performance is a clear demonstration of our growth algorithm in action. Let's step through that. We have curated a suite of value-added services and capabilities in large and fast-growing addressable markets such as digital, security and data-driven insights.

Mastercard's proprietary data and AI capabilities, combined with our payment network reach provide us a real competitive advantage. Simply put, we provide unique intelligence at scale. There's a natural tailwind to services from payments. At our Investor Day at the end of 2024, we noted that 60% of our value-added services and solutions net revenues were network linked.

This simply means value-added services and solutions revenues benefit from transaction growth and also higher growth drivers such as tokenization. For example, fraud scores and token authentication fall into this category. And we are actively working to further penetrate our customers and markets just like the Mastercard Threat Intelligence offering we launched last quarter, which has already started scaling across our payment network.

In addition to network-linked offerings, we also provide our customers with consulting, marketing and platform-based offerings. These non-network services enable us to sell to new buying centers at retail banks. They also extend our reach across a more diversified customer base, including governments, merchants, digital players and more. This quarter, we supported Costco in Canada and their omnichannel growth strategy using Mastercard's marketing and consulting services that's meaningful strategic value.

Innovation remains core to our long-term growth. We have a long-standing history of success in launching and scaling innovations. Way back in 2013, we architected the industry standard for tokenization to enable trusted digital transactions, a critical need of customers and partners at that time and still true today. In fact, as of quarter 4, we have tokenized nearly 40% of all transactions. And we continue to see adoption in both card-present and card-not-present use cases. And with this growth, we're seeing higher transactional approval rates, enabling further services growth. Our innovations continue to deliver real value to our customers and continue to drive financial benefit today. We're adding to that innovation.

Now with the launch of Mastercard Credit Intelligence, by using Mastercard's proprietary network data, identity and open finance capabilities, we can deliver faster credit assessments. For individuals and entrepreneurs, this could mean greater access to credit. For banks, greater insights to inform their lending strategies. And that fuels a healthy, inclusive digital economy, live in market and seeing adoption across a variety of customer types.

In addition, we've launched Mastercard Agent Suite, evolving our consulting practice from AI strategy to now include asset-led engagements. We will design and deploy AI agents within customer environments to drive operational excellence, enhance end customer experience. In addition to directly engaging with customers, we're scaling our services through distribution partners, one to many, including FIS, WPP and Comcast Advertising will be added this quarter.

So with that, I will wrap it up. In summary, we delivered a very strong fourth quarter and full year 2025. Our performance is a direct reflection of our growth strategy, deliberate diversification and focused execution. We're at the forefront of innovation, and we're remaining differentiated versus the competition. This helps us be an agile, trusted valued partner, especially as markets evolve. We have strong momentum moving into 2026 and remain confident in our continued growth.

Sachin, over to you.

Sachin Mehra
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Michael. So turning to Page 3, which shows our financial performance for the fourth quarter on a currency-neutral basis, excluding where applicable special items and the impact of gains and losses on our equity investments.

Net revenue was up 15%, reflecting continued growth in our payment network and our value-added services and solutions. Acquisitions contributed 1 ppt to this growth. Before discussing expenses, I am pleased to share that in late December, the company secured various new multiyear government grants related to investments in select geographies. These grants benefit both operating expenses and other income and expense. We expect to realize the operating expense benefit primarily in 2025 and 2026, while the other income and expense benefit will extend multiple years beyond 2026.

The Q4 2025 impact reflects the full year value of the 2025 grants with operating expenses growth improving by around 5.5 ppt and other income and expense benefiting by approximately $135 million in the quarter. These positively impacted each of the following metrics that I will discuss on this page.

Operating expenses increased 12%, including a 5 ppt increase from acquisitions and operating income was up 17%, which includes a 1 ppt headwind from acquisitions. Net income and EPS increased 17% and 20%, respectively, driven primarily by the strong operating income growth and a positive discrete tax item, which primarily benefited the effective tax rate. EPS was $4.76, which includes a $0.10 contribution from share repurchases. During the quarter, we repurchased $3.6 billion worth of stock and an additional $715 million through January 26, 2026.

Now turning to Page 4. Let's first look at some of our key volume drivers for the fourth quarter on a local currency basis. Worldwide gross dollar volume, or GDV, increased by 7% year-over-year. In the U.S., GDV increased by 4% with credit growth of 6% and debit growth of 2%. The growth of our debit portfolio was impacted by the Capital One debit migration, which continued through Q4. Outside of the U.S., volume increased 9% with credit growth of 9% and debit growth of 9%. Overall, cross-border volume increased 14% globally for the quarter, reflecting continued growth in both travel and non-travel related cross-border spending.

Turning to Page 5. Switched transactions grew 10% year-over-year in Q4. We continue to drive contactless penetration, which in Q4 stood at 77% of all in-person switched purchase transactions. This is up 5 ppt since the same period last year. In addition, card growth was 6%. Globally, there are 3.7 billion Mastercard and Maestro-branded cards issued.

Turning now to Slide 6 for a look into our net revenue growth rates for the fourth quarter discussed on a currency-neutral basis. Payment network net revenue increased 9%, primarily driven by domestic and cross-border transaction and volume growth. It also includes growth in rebates and incentives. Value-added Services & Solutions net revenue increased 22%. Acquisitions contributed approximately 3 ppt to this growth. The remaining 19% increase was primarily driven by growth in our underlying drivers, strong demand across digital and authentication, security solutions, consumer acquisition and engagement and business and market insights as well as pricing.

As we reflect on value-added services and solutions growth for the full year 2025, we continue to see strong broad-based growth, as Michael mentioned earlier. Looking at our organic growth rates, both AP, EMEA and the Americas delivered high teens growth. And we also saw at least high teens growth across all the services product areas apart from other solutions.

Now let's turn to Page 7 to discuss key metrics related to the payment network. Again, all growth rates are described on a currency-neutral basis, unless otherwise noted. Looking quickly at each key metric. Domestic assessments were up 8%, while worldwide GDV grew 7%. The difference is primarily driven by pricing, offset by mix. Cross-border assessments increased 17%, while cross-border volumes increased 14%. The 3 ppt difference is driven primarily by pricing in international markets, partially offset by mix. Transaction processing assessments were up 14%, while switched transactions grew 10%. The 4 ppt difference is primarily due to favorable mix and pricing, partially offset by a decline in revenue from FX volatility. Towards the end of Q4 and month-to-date January, we saw FX volatility well below historical norms. Other network assessments were $272 million this quarter.

Moving on to Page 8. You can see that on a non-GAAP currency-neutral basis, excluding special items, total adjusted operating expenses increased 12%, which includes a 5 ppt impact from acquisitions. Excluding acquisitions, the growth of total adjusted operating expenses was primarily driven by increased spending to support various strategic initiatives, including investing in our infrastructure, geographic expansion and enhancing and delivering our products and services. This was partially offset by the benefit of the government grants I described earlier.

Turning to Page 9. Let me comment on the operating metric trends. Starting with Q4 and looking at the metrics on a sequential basis. U.S. switched volume growth declined primarily due to the migration of the Capital One debit portfolio. Worldwide less U.S. switched volume saw a slight deceleration, driven primarily by tougher comps, including the lapping of portfolio wins in Europe. Switched transactions were in line with Q3. Cross-border volume remained strong. Of note, we saw a sequential decline in cross-border card-not-present ex travel, primarily driven by tougher comps from the lapping of share wins in Europe and higher growth from crypto purchases a year ago.

As we look to the first 3 weeks of January, our metrics continue to remain strong, generally in line with the fourth quarter. Of note, U.S. switch volume was flat sequentially as the Capital One debit roll-off was mostly offset by easier comps due to weather impacts in the prior year. We saw a decline in cross-border travel volumes, primarily due to weather-related impacts in Europe this year. Cross-border card-not-present ex travel continued to be impacted by higher growth from crypto purchases a year ago. Overall, we continue to see healthy consumer and business spending.

Turning to Page 10. I wanted to share our thoughts on fiscal year 2026. As Michael said, we delivered very strong results in 2025 across all facets of our business despite an uncertain backdrop. The fundamentals of our business remain strong. The macroeconomic environment remains supportive with balanced job markets across the globe, underpinning healthy consumer and business spending. That said, there continues to be ongoing geopolitical and economic uncertainty. We maintain a disciplined capital planning approach and have levers to pull if needed.

But most importantly, we are focused on the execution of our strategy, positioning ourselves for long-term growth and remaining innovative and differentiated. Coupled with our diversified business model, this creates resiliency, helps us navigate diverse environments just as we have done in the past. We remain positive about the growth outlook and our base case for 2026 continues to reflect healthy consumer spending.

As it relates to our expectations for the full year 2026, we expect net revenues to grow at the high end of a low double-digit range on a currency-neutral basis, excluding inorganic activity. We estimate a tailwind of approximately 1 to 1.5 ppt from foreign exchange. From a net revenue perspective, we expect currency-neutral growth in the first half of the year to be lower than in the second half. This is driven by tougher comps in the first half, primarily due to elevated revenue growth from FX volatility in 2025. From an operating expense standpoint, we expect growth to be at the low end of a low double-digit range versus a year ago on a currency-neutral basis, excluding inorganic activity and special items. We expect a headwind of 0.5 to 1 ppt from foreign exchange on a full year basis.

Now turning to the first quarter of 2026. Year-over-year net revenue growth is expected to be at the low end of a low double-digit range on a currency-neutral basis, excluding inorganic activity. We estimate a tailwind of approximately 3.5 to 4 ppt from foreign exchange for the quarter. From an operating expense standpoint, we expect Q1 growth to be in the high end of high single-digit range versus a year ago, again, on a currency-neutral basis, excluding inorganic activity and special items. Foreign exchange is forecasted to be a headwind of approximately 2.5 ppt for the quarter.

Separately, as Michael mentioned, based on the recent strategic review of our business, we expect to record a onetime restructuring charge in Q1 of approximately $200 million. This will be recorded as a special item and is excluded from our non-GAAP metrics. These actions will impact approximately 4% of our full-time employees globally. We expect these actions will free up capacity to further invest in our strategic priorities and best position us to continue to execute on our growth algorithm.

Other items to keep in mind. On other income and expenses, in Q1, we expect an expense of approximately $50 million, including the benefit from the government grants previously discussed. This excludes gains and losses on our equity investments, which are excluded from our non-GAAP metrics.

Finally, we expect a non-GAAP tax rate in the range of 20% to 21% for the full year and approximately 19% to 20% for Q1. A lower forecasted tax rate for Q1 as compared to the balance of the year is consistent with prior years due to expected discrete tax benefits related to share-based payments in the first quarter.

And with that, I will turn the call back over to Devin.

Devin Corr
Executive Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Sachin. Thank you, Michael. Julianne, you may now open the line for questions.

