MARA Holdings, Inc. (MARA) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 9:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Robert Samuels - Vice President of Investor Relations
Frederick Thiel - CEO & Executive Chairman
Salman Khan - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Reginald Smith - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings. Welcome to MARA's Q3 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to Robert Samuels, VP of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Robert Samuels
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator. Good morning, and welcome to MARA's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. Thank you for joining us today. With me on today's call are our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Fred Thiel; and our Chief Financial Officer, Salman Khan. Today's call includes forward-looking statements, including those about our growth plans, liquidity and financial performance. These involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. We disclaim any obligation to update these statements, except as required by law.

For more details, see the Risk Factors section of our latest 10-K and other SEC filings. We'll also reference non-GAAP financial measures like adjusted EBITDA and return on capital employed, which we believe are important indicators of MARA's operating performance because they exclude certain items that we do not believe directly reflect our core operations. Please see our earnings release for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures.

We hope you've had the chance to read our shareholder letter and look forward to your feedback. We'll begin with some brief prepared remarks from Fred and Salman. After their comments, we are going to be conducting an analyst interview with management. Today's session will be conducted by Reggie Smith, analyst at JPMorgan. And with that out of the way, I'm going to turn the call over to Fred to kick things off. Fred?

Frederick Thiel
CEO & Executive Chairman

Thanks, Rob, and thank you all for joining us. This quarter, we continued to evolve MARA from a pure-play Bitcoin miner into a vertically integrated digital infrastructure company, one that converts energy into both value and intelligence. At the heart of our strategy is a simple belief, electrons are the new oil. Energy is becoming the defining resource of the digital economy, powering everything from Bitcoin mining to artificial intelligence. And we believe those who control abundant, low-cost energy will shape the future of both finance and intelligence. Bitcoin has now entered its institutional phase. We're seeing financial leaders such as BlackRock, Citicorp, and now even JPMorgan, integrating Bitcoin into traditional frameworks. And we're seeing the establishment of strategic Bitcoin reserves by corporations and governments alike and even the Secretary of Treasury has posted positive notes about Bitcoin on X.

What miners have always understood is now being recognized by global markets. Bitcoin is digital energy, a mechanism for storing and transmitting value. As one of the largest Bitcoin miners in the world, MARA sits at the center of this shift. Our energy to value infrastructure allows us to convert raw power directly into Bitcoin that we hold on our balance sheet, a distinct advantage that grounds our broader mission, transforming energy into intelligence. Every electron has potential value and artificial intelligence represents the next frontier of this transformation of energy into even higher value. We believe that inference AI where the value of AI is actually created and derived, and not training in foundational models is where the AI industry will create the greatest amount of value over time.

Every insight produced by an AI model has a cost per token, driven by the cost to build and operate the data center, of which the energy cost makes up a major component. Over time, compute and the cost to build the data center will drop as technology advances such as low-cost ASICs, open-source models and the ability to operate in less sophisticated and less costly data centers drive efficiencies resulting in rapidly declining drops in cost per token, making the AI data centers of today unable to compete on cost per token over time without significant technology refreshes, requiring even more and higher capital injections.

We believe energy, not compute, really becomes the primary constraint on AI growth. We are already seeing the alternatives to GPUs enter the market and open-source AI is making it far easier and much less expensive for companies to deploy advanced AI systems directly in their own private cloud environments. In the past, most models were only available through public cloud APIs. That meant enterprises had to send data off-site and pay high per token fees to access AI capabilities.

But today, many of the world's most capable models like Llama, Mistral, and others are available in open-source form, giving companies full control to run AI more cost efficiently and fine-tune their models privately. This is a major inflection point for enterprise computing and a shift that plays directly to our strengths as we build out low-cost, high-efficiency compute powered by our own energy infrastructure. We believe we're positioned to provide the kind of private, scalable environments enterprises need to deploy these open models securely.

MARA is positioning itself at the nexus of these two AI trends. Open-source AI is expanding the addressable market for private cloud compute. We believe that the future infrastructure will be built to serve that demand efficiently and profitably. This is where MARA's expertise in securing and operating low-cost power gives us a distinct advantage. Just as we optimize for the lowest cost per petahash in mining, we're now optimizing for the lowest cost per token in AI inference.

Our long-term vision is to integrate these two energy pathways, Bitcoin and AI into a single platform. Bitcoin mining monetizes underutilized energy and stabilizes grids, while AI inference transforms that same energy into intelligence and productivity. By bringing Bitcoin and AI together, we seek to maximize the value of every megawatt hour we manage. We've already begun executing on this strategy.

This quarter, we installed our first AI inference racks at our Granbury site within a modular non-water cooled containerized data center. This site currently has 300 megawatts of nameplate capacity with potential opportunities to expand our growing AI inference business in combination with our Bitcoin mining operations at the site. This milestone marks a significant step forward in proving out our AI infrastructure and next-generation inference hypothesis. It also demonstrates the versatility of our platform, underscoring the potential flexibility of our mining sites to support AI workloads along with Bitcoin mining.

Two major initiatives this quarter are propelling our strategy going forward. First, our pending acquisition of Exaion, a subsidiary of EDF in France. Once regulatory approvals are completed and closing conditions have been met, Exaion will expand our capabilities into enterprise-grade AI-optimized private cloud and HPC infrastructure. We believe this will position MARA as a credible partner for enterprises seeking secure localized inference capacity. Second, today, we announced an initiative with MPLX, a separately traded public company formed by Marathon Petroleum Corporation, the largest petroleum refinery operator in the United States, to develop and operate multiple integrated power generation facilities and state-of-the-art data center campuses in West Texas.

Under this initiative, MPLX will provide long-term access to lower-cost natural gas at scale, where MARA will develop and operate on-site power generation and compute infrastructure. The initial capacity is expected to reach 400 megawatts with the option to expand to up to 1.5 gigawatts across three plant sites. We are also evaluating additional prospective sites to support modular AI and HPC data centers alongside mining operations, creating optionality for future AI inference workloads.

MARA's approach is to deploy smaller, modular facilities directly at lower-cost power sites instead of building hyperscaler campuses. We believe this distributed model will enable us to capture value at the inference layer while continuing to monetize mining and grid sales. This modular structure also gives MARA the optionality to shift capacity towards HPC over time as and if economics and infrastructure maturity support greater AI utilization.

We believe MARA is positioned to capitalize on a key structural advantage as power becomes the primary constraint in AI growth. Together, Exaion and MPLX connect the two sides of our AI and data center business, energy and compute, and strengthen our ability to control both cost and performance from power to inference. Internationally, we're deepening relationships across Europe and the Middle East, where we see significant opportunity to deploy our integrated energy and compute model.

Our pending Exaion acquisition exemplifies this, and we're honored to welcome Gérard Mestrallet, President Macron’'s special energy onboard as an advisor tomorrow. His expertise strengthens our global strategy as we pursue our goal of driving 50% of revenue from international operations by 2028. On the financial front, we continue to operate with discipline and transparency.

We ended the quarter with 52,850 Bitcoin, having mined over 2,100 BTC during Q3. We remain focused on improving free cash flow through ongoing cost optimization, site level efficiency gains and disciplined capital allocation. We have begun opportunistically monetizing Bitcoin from production to fund operating expenses and aim to limit reliance on our ATM to support growth initiatives, helping to mitigate shareholder dilution. As I spoke about last quarter, Bitcoin prices have consolidated within a range since Q2.

With intermittent volatility, we view this as a healthy period of equilibrium characterized by institutional inflows into ETF balanced by long-term holder liquidation activity. Using Jordi Visser's IPO analogy, Bitcoin is going through an IPO where early investors in VCs are exiting and institutional investors are coming in, forming a new base and foundation for growth. Meanwhile, broader macro trends, including rate cuts and expanding liquidity suggest improving condition for risk assets. Regardless of short-term volatility, our long-term trajectory remains unchanged, building enduring value through energy ownership, operational excellence, and strategic execution.

Finally, I want to provide an update on 2PIC. While we continue to recognize the long-term potential of 2-phase immersion, its practical broad application is still a few years out, and direct-to-chip cooling remains the preferred cooling methodology of data center operators and compute OEMs. We have exited near-term investment in 2-phase immersion to focus resources on opportunities with more immediate and higher return potential.

In closing, MARA is evolving from a Bitcoin miner into a digital infrastructure leader, combining energy generation, Bitcoin mining, and AI compute under one scalable platform. Our guiding metric is simple, profit per megawatt hour. It measures how effectively we convert energy into value, whether in Bitcoin, AI inference, or grid stability. As we continue to execute, we believe the market will increasingly recognize the strength of this diversified model and the strategic importance of energy ownership in the digital economy. I want to thank our employees for their exceptional work this quarter and our shareholders for their continued support as we build MARA into the world's leading digital energy and infrastructure company.

With that, I'll turn it over to Salman to review the financials.

Salman Khan
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Fred. During the quarter, global hashrate grew by roughly 20%, with the hashrate and network difficulty both hitting new all-time highs by end of the quarter. Bitcoin's price remained relatively range-bound, trading between $104,000 to $124,000, closing the quarter with a modest $7,000 gain. It was one of the most competitive mining environments in recent times and a difficult backdrop for our performance this quarter. Despite this, Q3 was the highest revenue and exahash quarter in the company's history. Our focus on operational and financial discipline over the past year is reflected in the substantial growth of our compute capacity and Bitcoin holdings. Between Q3 2024 and 2025, our Bitcoin holdings expanded by over 98%, growing from approximately 27,000 to nearly 53,000 Bitcoin. Our energized hashrate also expanded, increasing 64% from 36.9 to 60.4 exahash per second.

Bitcoin price appreciation resulted in approximately $4.3 billion or 256% increase year-over-year. While Fred spoke to our vision and strategy, our vertical integration and capital allocation strategy is reflected on our financial results. That balanced execution allowed us to expand our holdings and take advantage of favorable market conditions while maintaining liquidity and flexibility. We mined 2,144 Bitcoin and purchased an additional 2,257. The impact on our financials is evident in the results we achieved. Let's dig in. Revenues increased 92% to $252.4 million from $131.6 million in the third quarter of 2024. Bitcoin's average price increased 88% over that time period, which contributed $113.3 million. We mined an average of 23.3 BTC a day throughout Q3 compared to 22.5 BTC in Q3 of 2024, which resulted in 74 more Bitcoin mined this quarter.

Our strategy to deploy exahash responsibly resulted in growth of our BTC mine despite a significant growth in global hashrate and the network difficulty level. We reported a net income of $123.1 million or $0.27 per diluted share last quarter compared to net loss of $124.8 million or negative $0.42 per diluted share in the third quarter of last year. We also booked a $343.1 million gain on digital assets, including Bitcoin receivable during the third quarter of 2025 reflecting the positive impact of the Bitcoin holdings on our balance sheet.

Now let's talk about our cost structure. Our purchased energy cost of Bitcoin for the quarter was $39,235 and our daily cost per petahash per day improved 15% year-over-year, which we believe at scale is one of the lowest in the sector. This improvement is directly tied to our growing inventory of owned and operated sites, which now account for approximately 70% of our nameplate megawatt capacity. That transition supports our vertical integration strategy, but also pays dividends both financially and operationally. Since we do not control the price of Bitcoin we mine, minimizing the cost of inputs like energy are critical to the financial resilience and long-term success of the company.

Next, I'll provide some insights into our Bitcoin holdings and digital asset management strategy. MARA is the second largest corporate public holder of Bitcoin, and we seek to generate returns on our holdings as Bitcoin price appreciates. Our approach combines the potential for long-term Bitcoin appreciation with disciplined efforts to generate return while managing risk. Additionally, we have also used Bitcoin as a collateral to borrow under lines of credit. As of September 30, 2025, we held a total of 52,850 Bitcoin, including 17,357 Bitcoin that were loaned, actively managed, and pledged as collateral. As such, approximately 1/3 of our total holdings were activated through our digital asset management strategy.

In Q3, we issued $1.025 billion of zero-coupon convertible notes due 2032, extending our maturity profile and increasing balance sheet optionality. With additional liquidity, MARA gains strategic flexibility to act on opportunities, whether that's acquiring more Bitcoin, funding acquisitions, balance sheet management, or general corporate purposes. We have positioned MARA to act in response to market conditions in order to maximize long-term shareholder value. As of September 30, 2025, we held over $7 billion in liquid assets, giving us the flexibility to fund domestic growth and pursue international expansion.

To streamline our communications starting in Q4, we will share our production on a quarterly basis. Investors can continue to monitor our monthly MARA Pool production in real time on the mempool. As we have stated previously, electrons are the new oil, and we are laying the groundwork for 2026 and beyond. We're executing on a pipeline of energy infrastructure projects, both in the U.S. and internationally, and we expect these investments to expand our capabilities while keeping costs low.

With that, I'll turn it over to Reggie Smith from JPMorgan to begin our management interview. Reggie?