Medtronic plc (MDT) Q2 2026 Earnings Call November 18, 2025 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Ryan Weispfenning - VP & Head of Investor Relations
Geoffrey Martha - Chairman of the Board & CEO
Thierry Pieton - Executive VP & CFO
Laura Mauri - Senior VP and Chief Scientific & Medical Officer

Conference Call Participants

Patrick Wood - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Travis Steed - BofA Securities, Research Division
Vijay Kumar - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Robert Marcus - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Larry Biegelsen - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Shagun Singh Chadha - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Pito Chickering - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division

Presentation

Ryan Weispfenning
VP & Head of Investor Relations

Hello, everyone, and thanks for joining us today for our fiscal '26 second quarter video earnings webcast. I'm Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Medtronic Investor Relations.

Joining me here today are Geoff Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Thierry Pieton, Chief Financial Officer. Geoff and Thierry will provide comments on the results of our second quarter, which ended on October 24, 2025, and our outlook for the remainder of fiscal year '26. After our prepared remarks, we'll take questions from the sell-side analysts that cover the company. Today's program should last about an hour.

Earlier this morning, we issued a press release discussing our results and containing several financial schedules. We also posted an earnings presentation that provides additional details on our performance. The presentation can be accessed in our earnings press release or on our website at investorrelations.medtronic.com.

During today's program, many of the statements we make may be considered forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Additional information concerning factors that could cause our actual results to differ is contained in our periodic reports and other filings that we make with the SEC, and we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement.

Unless we say otherwise, all comparisons are on a year-over-year basis, and revenue comparisons are made on an organic basis, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange, second quarter revenue in the current and prior year from our divestiture this quarter of the Dutch Obesity Clinic, also known as NOK, and second quarter revenue in the current and prior year reported as "Other."

References to sequential revenue changes compared to the first quarter of fiscal '26 and are made on an "as reported" basis. All share references are on a revenue and year-over-year basis and compare our second fiscal quarter to our competitors' third calendar quarter.

Reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings press release or on our website at investorrelations.medtronic.com. And finally, our EPS guidance does not include any charges or gains that would be reported as non-GAAP adjustments to earnings during the fiscal year.

With that, over to you, Geoff.

Geoffrey Martha
Chairman of the Board & CEO

Okay. Thanks, Ryan. And hello, everyone. Last quarter, I told you that Medtronic is on the cusp of an acceleration in our financial results and our strategy. Well, today, I'm pleased to share that because of our organization's relentless focus, that acceleration is indeed underway. We delivered a strong second quarter. Both our revenue and EPS beat expectations.

Looking across our business, procedure volumes and end markets are robust, and we're bringing Medtronic's full capabilities to bear as we launch innovative technologies and execute ahead of plan in some of the most attractive and fast-growing end markets in medtech. We're glad to be able to raise our revenue growth and EPS guidance for the full year on the back of this building progress.

This quarter, we accelerated our growth with significant contributions from our Cardiac Ablations business as promised. Looking ahead, there's even more that Medtronic is capable of. We're positioning ourselves for even greater acceleration in revenue growth in the back half of the year and beyond. And our momentum is fueled by our enterprise growth drivers, including our PFA franchise for Afib, Symplicity for hypertension, Hugo in soft tissue robotics and Altaviva for incontinence. Look, these are game changers, and they'll power our trajectory.

And at this pivotal inflection point in our growth journey, we recognize the need to capitalize on the incredible market opportunities before us. So we've scaled manufacturing to support our acceleration. And this quarter, we took the opportunity to increase OpEx investments to support our revenue growth momentum. We did all this while still delivering outsized EPS growth relative to our guidance. Overall, we've shifted to a growth mindset. Besides our organic programs, we're focused on pursuing tuck-in M&A and executing strategic portfolio management.

Now let's get into the details on our enterprise growth drivers. One of them powered our growth acceleration this quarter. And together, all of them will fuel our total company revenue growth in the quarters ahead.

In Cardiac Ablation, our PFA franchise is generating just a ton of momentum. We grew 71%, which is a strong acceleration from last quarter's nearly 50% CAS growth. This is the highest growth rate of any company in this large and fast-growing space. We're winning share as our PFA franchise grew over 300% in the U.S. as well as in international markets. This was based on the strength of our Affera mapping system and our Sphere-9 dual energy and high-density mapping catheter.

Look, physicians tell us that they appreciate not only the shorter procedure times that they're seeing with Affera, but increasingly, they're calling out its outstanding durability as well. And demand continues to be extremely high as we hear repeatedly from customers that they want to purchase additional Affera systems to expand into even more of their labs. And in the vast majority of instances, when a new Affera system goes into a lab, we take the majority of the AF procedure share in that lab.

Our plants have scaled, as I mentioned earlier, to meet the challenge, and our mapping hiring is going really well. And as a result, we've doubled our installed base of Affera mapping systems during the quarter. And given the economics of this business with capital and consumables, our mapping system sales are a strong leading indicator of future revenue growth and margin expansion. So we're still in the early parts of this rollout, and we expect revenue acceleration to continue with an even higher CAS growth in Q3. We remain on track to double the revenue of this business soon, adding an incremental $1 billion off the $1 billion FY '25 base.

Look, and we're not stopping there. With our pipeline, we're bringing Affera technology to the single-shot segment with Sphere-360. EPs tell us that 360 is the most anticipated PFA catheter out there given the strength of its early clinical data. We've submitted the IDE to the FDA to get approval for our U.S. pivotal trial, which we're expecting to start in Q3. So the EP ablation space is now over $12 billion. It's growing mid-20s. And with our low double-digit share and the high demand I just talked about for the current portfolio and our pipeline, we see a long runway to gain significant share and add meaningful growth to Medtronic.

Now on top of that growth, we're launching as the clear market leader in 2 very large end markets, our Symplicity procedure for hypertension and Altaviva for incontinence. And we're excited to have received the final Medicare NCD for Symplicity 3 weeks ago. So now in addition to a broad label from the FDA, we have an excellent coverage outcome from CMS. The final NCD enables broad access and removes certain patient pathway barriers that were in the original proposal, including reducing in-person visits, removing a kidney function exclusion and cutting in half the time requirement for adherence to meds.

It also highlights patient quality of life as an important consideration. So the NCD gives physicians many avenues to bring Symplicity to patients. Additionally, we are currently the only company to meet the full NCD criteria with an approved continued evidence development plan. And on the commercial payer front, we picked up significant momentum with wins during the quarter, including HCSC, Regence, and several Blue Cross Blue Shield plans that collectively cover 30 million lives.

Shifting to efficacy. Medtronic is the runaway leader with RDN clinical data, and we continue to add to it. Only Symplicity RF-RDN has consistently shown sustained and improving blood pressure reductions in the long term. This is definitively unique to us, as we've not seen this with the ultrasound devices. This sets the standard that all other devices must now meet. And last month at TCT, we shared 3-year data from our ON MED trial that continued to show the procedure is effective over the long term.

Patients who underwent the Symplicity procedure experienced an 18.5 point average drop in systolic blood pressure. We also completed enrollment in our SPYRAL AFFIRM trial, which aims to expand Symplicity into high-risk subgroups, including people with isolated systolic hypertension. The first data from a subset of this trial was also shown at TCT with very strong results. We're using these results in ongoing discussions with the FDA.

So Symplicity represents a massive multibillion-dollar opportunity for Medtronic, with an addressable market of 18 million people in the U.S. with uncontrolled hypertension. And now with a broad NCD in place and commercial payers coming online faster than anticipated, this isn't a question of if or even how big, it's a question of how fast.

Now we have not incorporated much Symplicity revenue into our back half guidance, but we are sprinting after this opportunity. We have supply. We've ramped up physician training and market development activities with many hospitals initiating Symplicity programs across the country. And now we're increasing our consumer awareness programs. And as a result, we expect our revenue to pick up in the back half of the fiscal year and ramp over the next few quarters and meaningfully contribute to Medtronic for years to come.

Now shifting to Altaviva. We're seeing very positive signs in the first several weeks of the U.S. launch. Physician training programs are oversubscribed, and we're expanding training capacity to meet this demand. Physicians are stacking cases, and early media coverage has driven a surge in consumer search activity. Altaviva is a simple option to treat urinary urges and involuntary leaks, which affect 16 million people in the U.S. This small device is inserted just below the skin, but above the fascia near the ankle. The procedure is minimally invasive, doesn't require sedation, and the patient goes home with the therapy activated. So they're not waiting for follow-up appointments to feel the results.

The device is only recharged once or twice a year, eliminating the need for daily at-home charging equipment, and it has a 15-year battery. So we believe Altaviva will add meaningful growth to our Pelvic Health business and be a Medtronic growth driver again for years to come. And more importantly, it is meaningful for patients. This is our first patient in South Carolina, who is dancing to Jingle Bell Rock. It's getting to be that time of the year, and it's a wonderful video.

In addition to these enterprise growth drivers, we're seeing improvements in many of our other businesses as we execute on new product introductions, getting products to market ahead of schedule and ensuring strong commercial follow-through.

So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Thierry to cover the details of our business performance, financials and our guidance.

Thierry Pieton
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Geoff. Hi, everyone. I appreciate everyone joining us today. So I'll start with our Cardiovascular portfolio, where we grew 9%. This was our strongest growth in over a decade, excluding the easy comparisons we had after the pandemic. The growth acceleration was driven by our building momentum in CAS, which Geoff walked you through. And it's worth noting that PFA is now 75% of our Cardiac Ablation revenue. Our PFA growth significantly offset the 40% declines we had in cryo, and 90% of our remaining cryo revenue is in markets outside of the U.S.

And look, it wasn't just CAS. The rest of our Cardiovascular portfolio grew a combined mid-single digits. Cardiac Rhythm Management grew 5% with 18% growth in Micra leadless pacemakers, and nearly 80% growth in AURORA EV-ICDs. In Structural Heart, we grew 7% on the strength of the Evolut TAVR platform. In Peripheral Vascular, we grew low single digits, and we expect growth to improve as we continue to launch the Neuroguard IEP carotid stent and begin the launch of our Liberant mechanical thrombectomy system.

Next, in our Neuroscience portfolio, our growth returned to mid-single digits, as expected, with growth of 4%. In Cranial & Spinal Technologies, we grew 5%. That included 8% growth in Core Spine, both globally and in the U.S., and 5% in Neurosurgery capital equipment. Our spine AiBLE ecosystem, which includes AI-enabled preoperative planning software, and enabling capital equipment, including robotics, navigation, imaging and powered surgical instruments continues to attract strong spine surgeon adoption and drive meaningful share gains. And this is enabling strong pull-through of our Core Spine hardware.

Our Specialty Therapies businesses had flat results in Q2, an expected improvement from last quarter, driven by ENT and Neurovascular. We have clear line of sight to continued improvement in Specialty Therapies next quarter as we accelerate growth in both Neurovascular and Pelvic Health. In Neurovascular, growth will improve as we anniversary the vast majority of China VBP in January. We also expect an increasing growth contribution from the Neuroguard carotid stent launch, which is being sold by both our Peripheral Vascular and Neurovascular businesses. In Pelvic Health, we expect growth to accelerate on the Altaviva launch that Geoff outlined.

In Neuromodulation, we grew 7%. Both Pain Stim and Brain Modulation grew high single digits as we continue the rollout of our Inceptiv SCS and BrainSense aDBS systems. The market continues to appreciate our differentiated fully closed-loop technology with responsive real-time therapy adjustments that's available in both of these products.

Next, our MedSurg portfolio grew 1% as expected. Our surgical business also grew 1%, impacted as we anticipated, by the timing of certain tenders in emerging markets and the ongoing but stable market pressures from bariatric surgery and the shift to robotics. We expect a slight rebound in surgical in the back half. And over time, we expect growth to continue to improve as we enter new markets with Hugo.

In the back half of this fiscal year, we expect the FDA to approve Hugo with a urology indication, and we'll start our entrance in the U.S. We also continue to make progress on expanding indications. During the quarter, we presented our Enable Hernia repair study, which met its safety and effectiveness endpoints. And we kicked off our Embrace Gynecology U.S. pivotal study last month. This builds on the momentum from the positive results of our international gyn study, which we shared at SRS in July.

Given our experience in international markets, we've developed a clear understanding of the differentiated features that will make our robotics program successful. This includes Hugo's modularity and open console. It also includes continuously adding advanced technologies such as our ICG imaging and instrumentation like LigaSure RAS. Our Touch Surgery digital ecosystem is a force multiplier for robotics and for laparoscopic surgery. Adoption is building momentum and bringing AI into operating rooms in over 30 countries.

Beyond the features, we're also leveraging our deep partnerships with customers through our training, support and through our service. We look forward to robotics becoming a more meaningful growth driver over time.

Next, our Endoscopy business grew 8%. This was driven by double-digit growth in our esophageal products as well as in GI Genius, our AI-powered solution used to detect polyps during colonoscopies.

Wrapping up our business performance, our Diabetes business or MiniMed, as it will be called post separation, grew high single digits. We had particular strength in international markets, which grew 11%. As expected, the U.S. was lower this quarter, in large part due to a decline in new orders as customers anticipated the launch of our new sensors. As we've started accepting orders, we're seeing this pent-up demand materialize. There's a lot of excitement behind both the Simplera Sync and Instinct sensors.

Look, with the Simplera Sync, we continue to ramp manufacturing volume to support its European launch. As that ramp continues, we plan to roll it out more broadly to U.S. consumers later this fiscal year. And ahead of that, we started accepting orders during the quarter. With the Instinct sensor, we started taking preorders in the U.S. during the last month of the quarter, and we expect to begin shipping in late November. We accumulated more than 35,000 U.S. customer orders for Simplera Sync and preorders for Instinct. Around 25% of these orders are from new pump users or our Medtronic pump users who are not using our CGM. The rest of these orders are current customers in our installed base upgrading to the new sensors. We also saw over 9,000 HCPs in the U.S. who are new Medtronic prescribers.

Look, for those of you who follow this space, you know how big a deal these numbers are and the impact they're expected to have on increasing our installed base. We expect the demand for our new sensors to accelerate our U.S. growth in the back half of the fiscal year.

Our Diabetes business is in a strong innovation cycle. We've had a lot of great news in the last few months as our teams execute on the pipeline. In July, the 780G system received CE Mark for 3 expanded indications, including for type 2, for children as young as age 2 and during pregnancy. In September, the U.S. FDA also approved 780G for people with type 2 diabetes. And they cleared our SmartGuard algorithm that enabled integration with the Instinct sensor.

Earlier this month, we received FDA approval to start the U.S. pivotal for Vivera, our third-generation algorithm. We also continue to make progress with our new AID systems, MiniMed Flex and MiniMed Fit. We remain on track to submit Flex, our next-generation durable pump, to the U.S. FDA. And with Fit, our AID patch system, we intend to submit to the U.S. FDA by the fall of next year.

Look, finally, our planned separation of MiniMed is on track. Our preferred path continues to be a 2-step, IPO and split. We continue to expect the separation to be complete by the end of calendar year '26. So we have a lot of momentum with diabetes given the order inflection and progress on the pipeline and separation. And you're hearing today that this momentum acceleration extends across the enterprise as we advance our pipeline and deliver growth.

Now turning to the financials. The second quarter revenue of $9 billion grew 6.6% reported and 5.5% organic. That's an acceleration from last quarter and 75 basis points ahead of the midpoint of our guidance. Our revenue from a geographic perspective was balanced with double-digit growth in Japan and mid-single-digit growth in the U.S., in Western Europe and China. In China, we're driving growth even as we go through ongoing but very manageable volume-based procurement in a few businesses.

Our adjusted gross margin was 65.9%, up 70 basis points year-over-year. Similar to last quarter, I'll walk you through the main components. So we got 30 basis points again from pricing as well as 40 basis points from our COGS efficiency programs, net of inflation. Importantly, margin headwinds from ramping up our manufacturing capacity on Affera are now behind us. So together, we drove a 70 basis point operational improvement in gross margin in the quarter. This was offset by business mix, which represented a headwind of 80 basis points, split roughly equally between Cardiac Ablation and Diabetes. As I noted last quarter, CAS is impacted by the mix of lower-margin capital to higher-margin catheters, and Diabetes is early in its manufacturing ramp-up of Simplera. Over time, we expect both of these to improve as we scale our CAS business and separate the Diabetes business.

Next, tariffs were a 20 basis points headwind. And finally, FX was about 100 basis points tailwind. Adjusted R&D was 8.4% of revenue and increased 8.9%, which is 230 basis points ahead of reported revenue growth. We've increased R&D investments in our core right-to-win franchises, where we've identified opportunities to accelerate top line growth and improve our share in the near, mid and long term.

SG&A was 32.7% of revenue, up 20 basis points versus last year. As Geoff mentioned, we proactively took the opportunity to increase spending to accelerate our PFA and RDN launches in light of the considerable market demand and compelling near- and medium-term outlooks. At the same time, we delivered disciplined leverage on G&A with growth at under half the rate of our revenue growth.

Our adjusted op profit was $2.2 billion, an increase of 6%. This resulted in an adjusted operating margin of 24.1%, down 20 basis points year-over-year, but an increase of 50 basis points sequentially. Our adjusted tax rate was 16.4%. Q2 tax expense was lower than expected, which is largely due to timing and which we expect to offset in the fourth quarter. All in all, adjusted EPS was $1.36, an increase of 8% and $0.05 above the midpoint of our guidance.

Now let's cover our guidance. Given our outperformance in the first half of the year as well as the confidence we have in our revenue growth acceleration, we're raising our full year revenue guidance today. Year-to-date, we've delivered 5.2% organic growth, and we expect this to further accelerate in the back half of the year. As a result, we now expect fiscal '26 revenue growth of approximately 5.5%, a 50 basis point increase from the prior guidance. In the third quarter, we're also expecting approximately 5.5% growth and Q4 will be even stronger. Based on recent rates, we now see an FX tailwind to fiscal '26 revenue of $625 million to $725 million, including $150 million to $200 million tailwind in the third quarter.

Moving down the P&L. We expect our fiscal '26 gross margin to be slightly up ex tariffs with pricing, FX and COGS efficiency programs more than offsetting the negative impacts of business mix, primarily from Cardiac Ablation and Diabetes. We anticipate a tariff impact to COGS of approximately $185 million, including $90 million to $95 million in the third quarter. Including tariffs, we expect a fiscal '26 gross margin decrease of roughly 40 basis points.

We'll continue to fund R&D to grow greater than sales. With SG&A, in light of the outsized demand and building momentum for our enterprise growth drivers, we're capitalizing on every opportunity to accelerate our top line by strategically increasing sales and marketing investment in key programs, but we'll still deliver SG&A leverage on the full year by rigorously managing our G&A line.

Taking all of this together, we expect fiscal '26 adjusted operating profit to grow approximately 5%, or 7% excluding tariffs. Our fiscal '26 operating margin is expected to be roughly flat ex tariffs and down about 50 basis points, including the tariffs impact.

Now coming to EPS. Second quarter EPS came in $0.05 above the midpoint of our guidance. $0.035 of this beat was from reduced tax expense, as I mentioned earlier, that we now expect to occur in Q4. We're flowing through the remainder of the Q2 beat and increasing our fiscal '26 EPS guidance to a new range of $5.62 to $5.66 versus the prior range of $5.60 to $5.66.

For Q3, we expect EPS in the range of $1.32 to $1.34. We're expecting margins to be down a couple of hundred basis points in Q3 as the quarter includes half the annual impact of tariffs. In addition, the expected growth acceleration in CAS and Diabetes will continue to impact business mix, and Q3 is typically our lowest quarter for generating COGS efficiency savings given the holidays. However, we do expect Q4 margins to increase year-over-year and show strong sequential improvement.

Looking ahead to next year, we continue to expect high single-digit EPS growth in fiscal year '27, driven by accelerating revenue growth, a lesser impact of business mix from CAS and Diabetes on the gross margin line, and leverage on SG&A while we continue to drive higher investments in R&D and sales and marketing. Look, we remain committed to driving both revenue and earnings growth and believe strongly that our financial algorithm will flow from our current focus on building sustained top line momentum.

Geoff, back to you.

Geoffrey Martha
Chairman of the Board & CEO

Okay. Thank you, Thierry. Before we go to Q&A, let me share a few quick thoughts.

So when you look at our top line, you can really see the focus we've had on allocating capital, and executing on our pipeline is all now coming together to drive meaningful acceleration in our growth. We're on an incredible trajectory with PFA, and we're just getting started with some big new opportunities with Symplicity and Altaviva.

At the same time, our newly formed Board committees are helping as we act decisively and with increased speed. We're executing on margin enhancement programs to fuel our enterprise growth drivers, the future pipeline and earnings leverage. We continue to evaluate the overall portfolio at every level as well as tuck-in M&A, and we are committed to growing above our WAMGR, while also raising the WAMGR of the company over time. And I'm looking forward to diving deeper into all of this with you at our Investor Day next year.

So bottom line, we're executing on our commitments. You can see it in our numbers. And with every quarter, we're picking up more momentum. We're pleased with the progress, but eager to continue proving Medtronic has turned the page and entered a new period of greater revenue and earnings growth.

Finally, I want to thank our employees who are watching today around the world. Thank you. Thank you for your steadfast commitment to the Medtronic mission and to the patients that you and our customers serve every day. I also appreciate your continued execution, which allows us to collectively deliver on our total company performance. So thank you.

Okay. Now it's time to move on to Q&A where we're going to try to get to as many analysts as possible. We ask that you limit yourself to just one question and, only if needed, a related follow-up. If you have additional questions, you can reach out to Ryan and the Investor Relations team after the call. So Ryan, can you please give the Q&A instructions and queue up the analysts?