Vail Resorts, Inc. (MTN) Q1 2026 Earnings Call December 10, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Connie Wang
Robert Katz - CEO & Executive Chairman
Angela Korch - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Shaun Kelley - BofA Securities, Research Division
Benjamin Chaiken - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
David Katz - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Arpine Kocharyan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Charles Scholes - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Chris Woronka - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Jeffrey Stantial - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Brandt Montour - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Molly Baum - Morgan Stanley, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and welcome to the Vail Resorts Fiscal First Quarter 2026 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Connie Wang, Vice President of Investor Relations at Vail Resorts. You may begin.

Connie Wang

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, and welcome to our fiscal 2026 first quarter earnings conference call. Joining me on the call are Rob Katz, our Chief Executive Officer; and Angela Korch, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, let me remind you that some information provided during this call may include forward-looking statements that are based on certain assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings, and actual future results may vary materially. Forward-looking statements in our press release issued this afternoon, along with our remarks on this call, are made as of today, December 10, 2025, and we undertake no duty to update them as actual events unfold.

Today's remarks also include certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these measures are provided in the tables included with our press release, which, along with our annual report on Form 10-Q, were filed this afternoon with the SEC and are also available on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.vailresorts.com. I would now like to turn the call over to Rob for opening remarks.

Robert Katz
CEO & Executive Chairman

Thank you, Connie. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining our first quarter conference call. Before we discuss the results from the quarter and pass sales results, I want to provide an update on some of the key strategies we laid out last quarter to drive visitation and evolve our marketing approach. Beginning in the fall, we made some shifts in our marketing approach to increase spending in channels outside of traditional e-mail that drove improved results for the fall pass selling period. This included broadly increasing paid media and specifically being much more present in social and influencer channels. We saw some initial positive results from this effort, turning around the pass sales dollar trend for the post Labor Day period from up 1% compared to the prior year through Labor Day to up 6% post Labor Day, even though we faced challenging early season conditions heading into the final pass selling period that likely impacted our local passholder results. As we head into the winter season in the Northern Hemisphere, we are turning our focus to driving lift ticket visitation. For this season, we have several new strategies aimed at increasing lift ticket visitation that is an important funnel for driving long-term guest lifetime value.

Earlier this year, we launched Epic Friends tickets, which provides a 50% discount to friends and family of pass holders. This pass holder benefit enables our most loyal pass guests to share their experience with their network of family and friends who can apply the cost of that lift ticket to a pass the following year. In addition to the new Epic Friend tickets, we have also announced a new advanced discount offering for guests willing to commit 1 month in advance. The new lift ticket offer provides a 30% discount off window pricing for customers who commit over a month in advance at select resorts. That means that some of the company's largest destination mountains, skiers and riders can save over $100 per lift ticket depending on the day by purchasing 4 more weeks in advance. This provides another important bridge in product offerings for guests who cannot commit to a pass purchase ahead of the season.

In addition to our new lift ticket product offerings, we are also looking to be more strategic in pricing across our individual resorts and time periods. We are implementing more dynamic pricing strategies targeted at driving off-peak visitation at certain resorts, which fulfills the dual purpose of pricing select resorts more competitively and incentivizing visitation in lower volume time periods. We will be utilizing these strategies at resorts like Keystone in the upcoming ski season where we see the most opportunity to offset lower price with additional volume capture to drive overall revenue.

Finally, in addition to purchasers of Epic Friends tickets, purchases of advanced and window lift tickets will be able to apply up to $175 of the cost of their lift ticket to a pass for next season. Growing lift ticket sales is a critical entry point for guests to join our pass program, and we believe it is critical to have an integrated approach across all lift access products. Given the widened spread between lift tickets and pass prices, we believe that even with these new discounts, passes still represent the best value for our guests.

Moving now to our broader marketing efforts. We are looking to evolve and modernize our approach in how we reach and engage our guests. On the messaging front, we are in the early stages of creating content that builds a stronger connection with our guests by tapping into the passion they feel for our resort brands. Over the past quarter, we took some first steps to increase our media spending with messaging that celebrated the individual identity of each resort, which helped drive improved fall pass sales performance and incremental return compared to the spring selling period. We have also shifted our marketing to better capture guests at the top of the funnel, a key to building awareness and have expanded marketing in channels where younger consumers spend most of their time, including social, video, connected TV and streaming audio. While the full impact of brand-building marketing is expected to increase over time, we are seeing early signs that our investments in these channels are resonating with guests through increased engagement and outperformance versus our traditional branded creative and stronger brand awareness based on guest research.

The total magnitude of our actions around lift tickets and marketing will be less visible this fiscal year, but we are seeing early signs that reinforce our focus on these key areas. Longer term, we are focused on optimizing our products and pricing across our pass and lift tickets to drive long-term value creation. We are excited to have our new Chief Revenue Officer, Celeste Burgoyne, join us next month. Celeste has an incredible 20-year track record of success at Lululemon and is a very strong business leader with a passion for guest experience and leadership. I am more than confident that Celeste will make a very strong and long-term impact on helping us drive growth and ensure we live up to our mission of experience of a lifetime. I look forward to partnering with Celeste in modernizing our marketing engagement to drive future growth. While we've seen a slow start to our Rockies and Tahoe resorts due to challenging early season conditions, we've seen some strength in the Northeast and seen more typical patterns of Whistler Blackcomb and in Switzerland.

Changing weather and snowfall patterns are not new to us, but they reinforce the importance of the stability we create from our pass business, which remains a key long-term driver to our success. Overall, I am confident that we are working on the key areas that will drive our next phase of growth. We are laser-focused on delivering an exceptional guest experience, deepening our consumer connection with our resorts, and driving lift ticket visitation. And while still in early innings, we are seeing early signs that our initial efforts are resonating. We will continue to look for opportunities to optimize our products and pricing to support overall guest experience for fiscal year 2027. Our calendar year 2026 capital plan, which Angela will go into more detail shortly, reinforces our commitment to improving guest experience through investments in technology and multiyear initiatives to continue elevating our destination resorts. With that, I will turn the call over to Angela to review our financial results and outlook more in depth.

Angela Korch
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Rob. Good afternoon, everyone. Overall, we are pleased with the results from the first quarter, which were in line with our expectations. Resort net revenue was up 4% year-over-year as we saw improved visitation at our Australian resorts due to more favorable weather conditions and the introduction of the Epic Australia four day pass. Fiscal first quarter Resort reported EBITDA was flat year-over-year, reflecting the Australia weather favorability and the benefits from the Resource Efficiency Transformation plan, offset by typical inflation in year-round overhead costs, increased marketing spend aimed at driving winter pass product sales and onetime costs related to the Resource Efficiency Transformation plan. Regarding our Resource Transformation plan, we expect to deliver approximately $75 million of cumulative efficiencies before onetime operating expenses of approximately $14 million in fiscal year 2026, which represents a $38 million in incremental savings versus fiscal year 2025. As stated in our prior call, we anticipate exceeding the original $100 million annualized target, and we're looking forward to providing more details next spring.

Turning to pass sales. We finished the North American pass product selling period for the upcoming 2025, 2026 ski season, with units down 2% and sales dollars up 3%. We saw an acceleration in pass sales trends from our September update, with pass sales improving from the 3% decline in units and 1% increase in sales dollars for the period ending September 19 and to a 1% decline in units and a 6% increase in dollars from September 20 through December 5, 2025, reflecting improvements from our paid media investments, and higher price flow-through from an increased mix of unlimited pass products. While paid media drove positive results, snowfall was also down almost 60% versus the prior year at our Western North American resorts, which likely impacted local pass sales near the end of the selling period.

The results from the full pass selling season, the company now has approximately 2.3 million guests committed to our 42 North American, Australian and European resorts in advance of the 2025, 2026 season in nonrefundable advance commitment products this year, which are expected to generate approximately $1 billion of revenue and account for approximately 74% of all skier visits excluding complementary visits this year. We have grown pass units by 55% over the past 5 years, highlighting the increased guest commitment, which in turn provides greater financial stability to the company.

Moving to guidance. We are reiterating our previous guidance range of $201 million to $276 million in net income and resort reported EBITDA of $842 million to $898 million for fiscal year 2026. Similar to last quarter, our guidance assumes growth from price increases and ancillary capture as well as the assumed benefit from the approximately $38 million in incremental efficiencies related to the Resource Efficiency Transformation plan, offset partially by lower pass units, which are expected to have a negative impact on skier visits relative to the prior year, along with normal cost inflation. What's changed this quarter is that while our paid media efforts have driven an early improvement in pass sales, we've also seen a slow start to the season from below average conditions and recognize that it's very early in the North American ski season. We have seen conditions improve with recent increased snowfall, but recognize that most of our primary earnings period is still ahead of us. Therefore, we are reiterating our previously announced guidance at this point in time.

Rounding out the fiscal first quarter, our balance sheet remains strong with liquidity of $1.5 billion and net debt at 3.0x trailing 12 months EBITDA. We are confident in our ability to address our upcoming convertible debt maturity with a combination of cash on hand and our delayed draw term loan facility. Our capital allocation priorities remain intact as we announced our calendar year 2026 capital investments at our resorts, along with maintaining the cash dividend of $2.22 per share. We continue to be opportunistic about share buybacks, and we completed approximately 200,000 shares of repurchases after the quarter end for $25 million. Standing on our 2026 capital plan, we announced a core capital investment plan of $215 million to $220 million, which reflects the growth in inflation, including the impact from tariffs. In addition to the core capital plan, the company plans to invest an additional $12 million of growth capital investments in its European resorts, $5 million of Resource Efficiency Transformation projects and $2 million in real estate planning capital.

Including these investments, total capital is expected to be between $234 million to $239 million. Within our capital plan, I want to highlight our investments in a couple of key areas. First, we are making multiyear investments to elevate guest experience at our destination resorts. In Park City, we will replace the existing 8-passenger Cabriolet lift with a 10-passenger gondola, enhancing the accessibility and experience between the village and connecting multiple gondolas to the Canyons Village in the garage base area.

At Whistler Blackcomb, we are also investing in new lift to replace -- in a new lift to replace the showcase T-Bar lift, which will greatly improve accessibility to stable terrain on the Blackcomb Glacier. We are also rolling out a larger initiative around elevating our dining experiences at our top resorts, which includes remodels as well as activations to -- at our destination resorts.

We are also beginning a multiyear investment at select resorts to implement remote avalanche control systems. These systems remotely trigger controlled avalanches, reducing manual intervention and improving safety, reliability and the guest experience through faster, more consistent predictable terrain openings.

We are also investing to upgrade the Blitzen lift at Seven Springs to ease congestion and improve the experience in accessing the North face side of the resort. Next, we are investing in technology to support the guest experience with improvements in addition to the My Epic App, along with enhancements to our marketing capabilities and e-commerce platform. Within the My Epic App, we've added functionality -- the functionality will provide guests with information they need and streamline their resort experience, allow for in-app commerce with Apple and Google Pay and continue to invest in revamping and digitizing the Ski School experience and integrating the My Epic gear experience into the broader rental platform.

On the marketing front, we are modernizing our e-commerce platform by migrating to a new content management system, to enhance personalization, flexibility and speed to market. We're also expanding our capabilities for more agile pricing and product updates to capture revenue opportunities and improve the operational efficiency.

Last, we will continue to support our sustainability initiatives through investments in low energy snowmaking at Okemo and waste reduction projects across the resorts. We are also investing capital to support the Resource Efficiency Transformation plan.

In closing, we are leveraging our distinct competitive advantages and progressing on the drivers of our next growth phase to drive results in fiscal year 2027 and beyond. With our track record of disciplined capital allocation, we are laying the foundation to drive long-term sustainable growth and consistent value creation.

At this time, I'm happy to turn the call back to the operator for your questions.