Nordson Corporation (NDSN) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 11, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Lara Mahoney - Vice President of Investor Relations & Corporate Communications
Sundaram Nagarajan - President, CEO & Director
Daniel Hopgood - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Michael Halloran - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Mitchell Moore - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Matt Summerville - D.A. Davidson & Co., Research Division
Andrew Buscaglia - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Christopher Glynn - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Bradley Hewitt - Wolfe Research, LLC
Walter Liptak - Seaport Research Partners
Robert Jamieson - Vertical Research Partners, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us, and welcome to the Nordson Corporation Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2025 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

I will now hand the conference over to Lara Mahoney. Please go ahead.

Lara Mahoney
Vice President of Investor Relations & Corporate Communications

Thank you. Good morning. This is Lara Mahoney, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. I'm here with Sundaram Nagarajan, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Hopgood, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

We welcome you to our conference call today, Thursday, December 11, 2025, to report Nordson's fiscal year 2025 fourth quarter and full year results. You can find both our press release as well as our webcast slide presentation that we will refer to on today's call on our website at nordson.com/investors. This conference call is being broadcast live on our investor website and will be available there for 30 days. During this conference call, we will make references to non-GAAP financial metrics. We've provided a reconciliation of these metrics to the most comparable GAAP metric in the press release issued yesterday.

Before we begin, please refer to Slide 2 of our presentation where we will note that certain statements regarding our future performance that are made during this call may be forward-looking based upon Nordson's current expectations. These statements may involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors as discussed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission that could cause actual results to differ.

Moving to today's agenda on Slide 3. Naga will discuss fourth quarter and full year highlights. He will then turn the call over to Dan to review sales and earnings performance for the total company and the three business segments. Dan also will talk about the year-end balance sheet and cash flow. Naga will conclude with high-level commentary about our enterprise performance, including an update on the Ascend Strategy, as well as our fiscal 2026 full year and first quarter guidance. We will then be happy to take your questions.

With that, I'll turn to Slide 4 and hand the call over to Naga.

Sundaram Nagarajan
President, CEO & Director

Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining Nordson's Fiscal 2025 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Conference Call. I am pleased to share our solid fourth quarter results. Sales were up 1% over prior year inclusive of the divestiture of our medical contract manufacturing business that closed on September 2. Adjusted earnings per share grew 9% over the prior year, reaching the high end of our fourth quarter guidance. Notably, we achieved record EBITDA of $256 million, expanding EBITDA margin to 34% in the quarter.

We also generated record cash flow of $194 million in the quarter, which is a conversion rate to the net income of 128%. This enabled us to continue repurchasing shares, paying dividends and further reducing debt. This is a strong operational result, and I want to thank the Nordson team for their ongoing commitment to delivering value to our customers and shareholders.

As I turn to fiscal 2025 financial highlights on Slide 5, I want to reflect on the progress we have made since launching the Ascend Strategy 5 years ago. In addition to Nordson's legacy strengths of leadership positions in diversified niche end markets, high recurring parts revenues, a direct-to-customer model and differentiated products built on deep knowledge of our customers' demanding applications, the Ascend Strategy has added new capabilities, including the NBS Next growth framework and a division-led structure, which have empowered our teams to respond rapidly to changing market conditions. And certainly, we have navigated effectively through significant macroeconomic changes over the last 5 years.

2025 was no exception and Nordson delivered strong results. In line with our initial guidance, we achieved record sales of $2.8 billion, up 4% from last year. Despite the macro disruptions, we delivered record adjusted earnings per share of $10.24, exceeding the midpoint of our initial full year guidance. We maintained our average gross margins of 55% in an evolving tariff environment, demonstrating the value and differentiation we provide to our customers.

Throughout fiscal 2025, we also continued to strengthen our portfolio. The integration of Atrion Medical has been a success and it contributed nicely to sales and EPS growth in the first year. We also strengthened our medical portfolio through the divestiture of our contract manufacturing business, driving immediate improvement in our margins and increased focus on our remaining differentiated medical businesses. All of these actions delivered EBITDA of $900 million, achieving our 2025 Ascend Strategy goal.

I would also like to highlight our full year free cash flow conversion of 136% of net income. Our strong cash generation enabled us to repurchase about $300 million in shares, increased dividends for the 62nd consecutive year and reduced our net debt, ending the year at a 2.1x leverage ratio, near the low end of our targeted range. I'll speak more to the enterprise performance in a few moments, but first I'll turn the call over to Dan to provide more detailed perspective on our financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2025.

Daniel Hopgood
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Naga, and good morning to everyone. I'll start on Slide 6, which summarizes our overall results for the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter 2025 sales were $752 million, up 1% compared to the prior year's fourth quarter sales of $744 million. Organic sales decreased 1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2024, with growth in our medical segment being offset by softness in selected industrial and advanced technology systems product lines during the quarter.

Currency translation had a positive impact of 2% during the quarter, and we saw a small net positive from a combination of both the Atrion acquisition which anniversaried in late August, and the divestiture of the medical contract manufacturing business, which we completed in early September. Adjusted operating profit increased 6% year-over-year to $218 million, reflecting both strong gross margin performance and improved SG&A leverage during the quarter.

EBITDA was also up 6% year-over-year at $256 million and reached 34% of sales. This represents a 160 basis point improvement over the prior year fourth quarter. Adjusted operating profit and EBITDA margins benefited from solid operational performance, improved portfolio mix as a result of the divestiture of our medical contract manufacturing business and the restructuring actions that we announced earlier in the year which have now been substantially completed.

It's worth highlighting that this is our third consecutive quarter of improving EBITDA margin amid the dynamic trade environment. This is a testament to our ability to execute and deliver operationally in dynamic times while also creating value through strategic M&A activity. If we look now at nonoperating income and expense during the quarter, interest expense improved $4 million year-over-year driven by reduced leverage and a stable to declining rate environment. This benefit was essentially offset by an increase in other nonoperating expenses during the quarter. Tax expense was $31 million in the fourth quarter for an effective tax rate of 17.1%. This brings our full year tax rate to 18.9%, which is slightly better than our original guidance range for fiscal 2025.

All of this resulted in GAAP net income that totaled $152 million or $2.69 per diluted share. Excluding nonrecurring acquisition and restructuring-related expenses, as well as charges associated with the exit of the medical contract manufacturing business, adjusted earnings per share totaled $3.03 per share, a 9% increase over the prior year and $0.08 above the midpoint of our quarterly guidance, reflecting our strong operational performance during the period. Not only was this a strong year-over-year improvement in earnings, but on a dollar basis it also represents a quarterly record for the company.

Now let's turn to Slides 7 through 9 to review our fourth quarter segment performance. Industrial Precision Solutions sales of $362 million decreased 2% compared to the prior year fourth quarter. Organically, IPS was down just under 4% in the quarter, with currency providing a favorable impact of about 2%. Although it was another quarter of improvement sequentially, year-over-year declines in our polymer processing product lines and some smaller reductions in our industrial coating systems outpaced solid growth in precision agriculture and packaging product lines. For both polymer processing and industrial coating systems, we see continued signs of stabilization and improvement in our backlog and order rates, so these areas should no longer be a drag on results heading into the first quarter of fiscal 2026. EBITDA for the quarter was $137 million, or 38% of sales, reflecting consistent and strong operational performance on slightly lower sales volumes during the quarter.

Turning to Slide 8, you'll see Medical and Fluid Solutions sales of $220 million, an increase of 10% compared to the prior year's fourth quarter. Organic sales volume was up nicely at 7% driven by broad-based demand across all of our product lines. I think it's fair to say that the destocking that was impacting our interventional product lines is now fully behind us, and we see good, stable demand in our order books heading into the new year. The final acquisition impact from Atrion, net of the sales reduction from divesting our medical contract manufacturing business, added a net 2% to sales during the quarter. After a successful year 1 integration, it's also worth noting that Atrion is now contributing nicely to organic growth that we achieved during the quarter. Finally, currency had a modest favorable impact on the overall sales versus the prior year.

EBITDA for the quarter was $88 million, or 40% of sales, which is an increase of 21% compared to the prior year EBITDA of $72 million, or 36% of sales. This was a fantastic result with EBITDA margins up 380 basis points versus the prior year. While a big part of the margin improvement in the quarter is driven by the divestiture of our contract manufacturing business, our teams also continue to execute quite well and are now fully benefiting from the normalization in demand.

Turning to Slide 9, you'll see Advanced Technology Solutions sales of $171 million, a decrease of 4% compared to the prior year's fourth quarter. This change included a decrease in organic sales volume of roughly 5% with a small positive currency benefit. The year-over-year organic sales decline was driven by weakness in x-ray systems demand. We continue to see strong growth in electronic dispense product lines and stable demand for optical, acoustic and other product lines, but these were overshadowed by near-term weakness in x-ray systems during the quarter.

As a reminder, our ATS revenue tends to be a bit lumpy quarter-to-quarter based on systems delivery. That said, we continue to see strong underlying momentum in our ATS end markets despite the lower year-over-year result in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter EBITDA was $43 million, or 25% of sales, a decrease of 10% from the prior year fourth quarter EBITDA of $48 million, or 27% of sales. The decrease in EBITDA margin was reflective of lower sales volume and some unfavorable product mix during the quarter with stable underlying product line performance.

Now turning to Slide 10, I'd like to make a few comments on our full year results. As Naga mentioned, fiscal 2025 full year sales were a record $2.8 billion and an increase of 4% year-on-year. Our acquisition and divestiture activity added a net 6% to sales for the year, while organic sales were down roughly 3% and currency was a modest benefit. Looking back at the full year sales result, organic sales were really weighed down by three specific areas: polymer processing systems, our automotive-related systems and selected X-ray Inspection applications. In all cases, the core fundamentals of these businesses remain strong, and as we exit the year, we see good stability in our backlog and order rates, meaning we've seen the trough.

EBITDA for the full year increased 6% to a record $900 million, or 32% of sales. This reflects a full year incremental EBITDA margin of 49% and marks the fifth consecutive year that the Ascend Strategy has delivered strong EBITDA growth. This results in GAAP diluted earnings per share of $8.51 for the year and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $10.24, both up 5% from the prior year and representing a new record for adjusted diluted earnings per share. In a year that's been full of surprises, we're quite proud of these results, and we like where we're positioned heading into fiscal 2026.

Finally, turning to the balance sheet and cash flow on Slide 11. At the end of the fourth quarter, we had cash on hand of $108 million and net debt was approximately $1.9 billion, resulting in a leverage ratio of 2.1x, a significant reduction from where we started the year. While we did benefit from roughly $30 million in net proceeds from the contract manufacturing sale, our free cash flow really enabled this debt reduction. And our free cash flow generation remains quite strong, an annual record of $661 million, and a cash conversion rate of 136% on net income. This strong cash conversion was primarily driven by targeted improvements in working capital, which is an area that we remain focused on.

As a result of our strong free cash flow during the year, we were able to repurchase approximately $300 million in shares, reduce our net debt by about $224 million and pay $179 million in dividends, while continuing to invest approximately $60 million in capital projects to drive organic growth. This positions us quite well heading into 2026 for continued returns to shareholders with plenty of firepower to continue to add attractive assets to the portfolio.

In summary, we had another strong operational quarter, and we finished the year strong, exceeding our original profit commitment for the year despite a very dynamic macro environment. We closed fiscal 2025 with a strong balance sheet while returning value to shareholders due to record free cash flow generation and we took action to optimize our medical portfolio, positioning us for continued profitable growth. As we enter fiscal 2026 with our key market headwinds behind us, we're well positioned to capitalize on profitable growth opportunities and we're confident in our ability to convert those opportunities to bottom line results and value.

With that, we'll now turn to Slide 12, and I'll return the call to Naga.

Sundaram Nagarajan
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Dan. In October 2024, we announced our 2025 to 2029 performance targets. In 2029, when we look back on our financial performance for that period, we expect to deliver an average annual growth of 6% to 8% in revenue, balanced between organic and acquisitive growth and 10% to 12% in adjusted EPS growth. In 2025, we managed effectively through some dynamic macroeconomic conditions and made progress towards our goals.

Turning to Slide 13, I'd like to talk about what we are seeing in our end markets as we enter fiscal 2026. Starting with our Industrial Precision Solutions segment, we continue to see sustaining investments in packaging and product assembly end markets. Precision agriculture demand is sustainable in Europe and South America given the strengthening demand for increasing yields and quality in these regional markets. Demand in auto and polymer processing end markets has stabilized. Through it all, aftermarket parts remain a stable part of the IPS revenue portfolio, contributing to growth and delivering attractive margins. Overall, we expect the IPS segment to return to more normal growth rates of low single digits.

In Medical, customer destocking is behind us and our core business is returning to mid-single-digit organic growth. The demand drivers fueling this end market such as the aging of the population and shift towards noninvasive surgeries remain consistent and our medical team has a healthy pipeline of customer projects. In ATS, our semiconductor applications are well positioned to benefit from investments in the semiconductor cycle. We remind our investors of semiconductor applications account for approximately 50% of ATS revenue. While timing of orders remain lumpy, our team is winning share based on our ability to deliver innovative new products in short lead times. This is possible because we have holistically applied NBS Next.

In addition to being located close to the customer, our products deliver leading productivity and quality in complex advanced packaging applications of semiconductors used for AI, cloud computing and more. The remaining exposures within ATS are automotive and general electronics where the demand is stable but dampening the higher semi growth rates. Encouraged by our end market demand trends and being prepared to operate in a range of macroeconomic environments, we are entering 2026 optimistic to deliver solid growth.

Now turning to the financial outlook on Slide 14. [ We enter ] fiscal 2026 with approximately $600 million in backlog, up 5% from the prior year-end, excluding backlog associated with the divested business. Based on the combination of order entry, backlog, current foreign exchange rates and anticipated end market expectations, we anticipate delivering full year sales in the range of 1% to 6% above fiscal 2025 sales. This sales guidance assumes 1% benefit from foreign exchange rates which will be offset by the divested medical contract manufacturing business. Importantly, this implies a midpoint of 3.5% demonstrating solid progress towards our long-term organic growth annual target.

Full year 2026 adjusted earnings are forecasted to be in the range of 6% to 12% growth per diluted share with a midpoint of 9%. Adjusted earnings growth is also progressing well toward our annual adjusted EPS growth algorithm. For modeling purposes, in fiscal 2026, assume an estimated effective tax rate of 18.5% to 19.5%, capital expenditures of approximately $55 million to $65 million and interest expense of approximately $85 million to $95 million.

Based on seasonality, we expect our fiscal first quarter to start modestly growing nicely over prior year. As you will see on Slide 15, first quarter fiscal 2026 sales are forecasted in the range of $630 million to $670 million and adjusted earnings in the range of $2.25 to $2.45 per diluted share. The Nordson team consistently delivers operational excellence and strong cash flow due to our unique competitive advantages. Coupling with our expectations for end market growth, we are looking forward to a solid fiscal 2026. As a growth compounder, we will continue to reinvest in the business while returning cash to our shareholders. Again, I want to thank our employees, customers and shareholders for your continued support.

We will now open the phone lines for questions.