Northrop Grumman Corporation (NOC) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 9:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Todd Ernst - Vice President, Investor Relations
Kathy Warden - Chair, CEO & President
Kenneth Crews
John Greene - Corporate VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Ronald Epstein - BofA Securities, Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Kristine Liwag - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Scott Deuschle - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Robert Stallard - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
Seth Seifman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Gavin Parsons - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
John Godyn - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Myles Walton - Wolfe Research, LLC
Kenneth Herbert - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Richard Safran - Seaport Research Partners
Gautam Khanna - TD Cowen, Research Division
Douglas Harned - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Fourth Quarter 2025 Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. My name is Josh, and I will be your operator today. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Todd Ernst, Vice President, Investor Relations. Mr. Ernst, please proceed.

Todd Ernst
Vice President, Investor Relations

Thanks, Josh, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Fourth Quarter 2025 Conference Call. Before we start, matters discussed on today's call, including guidance and outlooks for 2026 and beyond, reflect the company's judgment based on information available at the time of this call. They constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to safe harbor provisions of federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those noted in today's press release and our SEC filings. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual company results to differ materially.

Today's call will include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to our GAAP results in our earnings release. In addition, we will refer to a presentation that is posted to our Investor Relations website. On the call today are Kathy Warden, our Chair, CEO and President; John Greene, our CFO; and Ken Crews, our CFO, prior to January 7.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Kathy. Kathy?

Kathy Warden
Chair, CEO & President

Thanks, Todd. Good morning, and thank you for joining our fourth quarter and full year 2025 earnings call. The Northrop Grumman team delivered another quarter of strong operating results, generating the highest quarterly sales growth of 2025 and exceeding expectations across our key performance metrics. Throughout the year, we kept a disciplined approach in executing our strategy, remaining true to our technology leadership and ensuring our company moves at the speed of relevance, particularly as our customers transform the way they acquire defense capabilities. This business strategy includes our capital deployment plan, which prioritizes investments in value-creating growth opportunities, of which there are many in this current environment.

Northrop Grumman's portfolio is aligned to what U.S. and international customers need right now, and we see a clear path to continued solid growth in the future. We ended the year with over $95 billion in backlog, a new company record, driven by over $46 billion in net awards in 2025. Our backlog has grown by nearly $20 billion since 2021, and our 5-year average book-to-bill ratio has been 1.1x. Our 2025 sales and EPS both exceeded the high end of our guidance range and free cash flow was $3.3 billion for the year. This represents a 26% increase in free cash flow compared to 2024, the third consecutive year of at least 25% growth. This strong performance provides momentum for our company in an increased demand environment and gives us continued confidence in our outlook.

This confidence is rooted in our conviction that we have a talented engineering and operations team and a portfolio uniquely designed to deliver the capabilities needed by our U.S. and international customers. In the U.S., we are aligned with the administration's and Congress' focus on expanding American manufacturing capabilities and capacity on critical programs and ensuring technological superiority. We have purposefully built and shaped our portfolio with a focus on our customers' demand signals. We are a leader in developing and delivering advanced and often considered exquisite capabilities, which are at the core of U.S. war fighting today. However, we have also demonstrated that we can design and develop more affordable solutions that can be produced in mass and fielded quickly.

One example of this is high-volume space assets that we are building for the space development agency, including our fourth quarter award for 18 Tranche 3 Tracking Layer satellites, which brings our total SDA satellite backlog to 150. Our missile tracking solution leverages our broad set of missile defense capabilities to provide global detection, warning and tracking of hypersonic weapons and advanced missiles from the earliest stages of launch through interception.

Protecting the homeland is a top priority for the Trump administration as outlined in the recently released National Defense Strategy. In alignment with the Department of War's focus on acquisition transformation, we are transforming Northrop Grumman. We are moving with urgency and proactively bringing innovative solutions to our customers. An example of this includes the latest advancements in our uncrewed portfolio, the first of which is Project Talon, an evolution of our collaborative combat aircraft Increment 1 design that strikes a balance between capability and affordability. Project Talon was designed and built in under 24 months.

To accelerate the development, we leveraged our autonomous testbed ecosystem, Beacon, which is now known as Talon IQ. Project Talon built on Northrop Grumman's 7 decades of experience with advanced battle-tested uncrewed systems. In December, the same month that we unveiled it, the U.S. Air Force awarded our aircraft with a designator the YFQ-48A. This is only the third CCA platform to have this type of designation. Beyond the interest the Air Force has shown in this system, we also believe Talon will have broad global appeal.

I want to highlight a second example in our uncrewed market, which speaks to our partnership approach. We team with Kratos to develop a collaborative combat aircraft for the marine and received a $231 million award late last year. The expeditionary uncrewed aircraft combines our vast experience in multifunction mission systems with Kratos' proven platform, the Valkyrie. We've completed more than 20 successful demonstrations in operationally relevant environment, and we are working to rapidly field this capability to work alongside crewed fighters.

Our focus extends well beyond developing the next generation of space and airborne uncrewed platforms. We are equally dedicated to scaling our operations across our portfolio to meet rapidly increasing demand, including critical areas like munitions. To address the growth in munitions, we have made significant investments to expand capacity for existing programs and in support of second source initiatives. Since 2021, we have successfully doubled our production capacity for tactical solid rocket motors at our ABL facility in West Virginia, and are now advancing efforts to further increase that capacity by another 50%, effectively tripling our tactical SRM production capabilities at that facility by early 2027. And we are making similar investments to expand capacity at our Elkton, Maryland site to triple capacity there by 2030. This proactive approach places us in a strong position as the weapons market continues to expand.

On one end of the spectrum, we are developing cost-effective solutions that can be quickly designed, produced and deployed at scale. On the other end of the spectrum, we are also developing and producing unmatched strategic deterrence assets for our nation. This includes executing on normal -- numerous programs in the restricted arena which comprises over 30% of our business. It also encompasses emerging areas in space, which has evolved into a war fighting domain. Space security or capabilities to protect space assets represents a tremendous growth opportunity for our company given our proven technology and experience in this domain. And these capabilities are fundamental to maintaining the most advanced military in the world. And of course, our contribution to strategic deterrence also includes our work on modernization of the triad.

Regarding status of our work on the triad, the B-21 program is meeting key milestones including first flight of the second aircraft in 2025. In the fourth quarter, as expected, we were awarded the LRIP Lot 3 contract as well as advanced procurement funding for Lot 5. We continue to work closely with the Air Force on plans to increase the production rate of the program. Our priority is to establish a mutually beneficial agreement that accelerates the delivery of this game-changing capability to our nation. Funding for this acceleration has been approved as part of the reconciliation bill, and I am optimistic that we will come to an agreement with the Air Force this quarter.

We also continue to make progress on Sentinel, advancing key aspects while partnering with the Air Force to restructure the program. In addition, to continued progress on the missile, we are maturing launch silo design and moving forward with prototyping activities in the command and launch segments of the program. In the United States, our customers are turning to industry to move beyond traditional business models, breakdown bureaucracy and increased deliveries of capabilities at a faster pace. Importantly, they have got this request with funding, and this creates an immense opportunity for Northrop Grumman. We are encouraged by the recent $1.5 trillion FY '27 budget recommendation which indicates the potential for historic growth in defense spending. And in support of this approach, we are bringing proposals forward to accelerate our program, embrace new ways of working and partner more effectively with our customers.

Our company is well aligned with the administration and Congress' focus on speed, capacity and performance, all in support of National Defense. We are hopeful that FY '26 defense appropriations will be completed soon, and we see strong support for the capabilities we deliver to the war fighter in the bill moving through Congress now. We also expect reconciliation investments to move forward this year. Internationally, we are experiencing strong momentum as allied nations increasingly invest in enhancing their national security capabilities. Our international growth strategy focuses on both exporting products manufactured in the United States and forming industrial partnerships to develop indigenous capabilities in these nations. We are successfully executing this strategy with international sales growing by 20% in 2025.

Demand signals remain strong, and we anticipate continued growth in 2026 and beyond. The global appetite for our technology is fueling this demand, particularly in air and missile defense system, advanced munitions, radars and a diverse array of airborne capabilities. We've now received formal requests to acquire IBCS from over 20 countries and we are seeing notable progress on multiple other opportunities, including ground-based radars where we are expecting contracts from customers in the Americas, Middle East and Asia Pacific. The robust global demand environment supports our 2026 guidance, which is consistent with the outlook we provided to you in October.

We're positioned to deliver another strong year of sales and margin growth enabling our ability to generate cash and invest in our business. As a result, we expect to increase capital expenditures this year. Our focus will be on a variety of high-impact value-generating initiatives in areas such as solid rocket motors, missile defense, advanced technologies and restricted capabilities. These investments are intended to create long-term value for both our customers and shareholders by delivering advanced solutions quickly, enabling our military to maintain its competitive edge.

2025 was a strong year for our company, and we are well positioned to continue this success into 2026 and beyond. I'd like to thank the entire Northrop Grumman team for their contributions to our results and your dedication to our customers. We are proud of the impact our products have on global peace and stability and we share the sense of responsibility and urgency our customers have to provide our nation and allies the best products in the world.

Before turning the call over to Ken, I want to welcome John Greene, who joined our team as CFO earlier this month. John is an experienced CFO and has a proven track record of driving growth and operational excellence and I look forward to working with him. I also want to extend my deepest gratitude to Ken for his leadership and significant contributions during his more than 20-year career with Northrop Grumman. He was instrumental to our strong finish to 2025, and he has ensured a smooth transition to John. Thank you, Ken. And I'll turn the call over to you.

Kenneth Crews

Good morning, everyone, and thank you, Kathy. Today, I'll walk you through our 2025 results, after which John will discuss our outlook for 2026. 2025 marks another year of strong financial performance, reflecting robust demand for Northrop Grumman capabilities and our continued focus on operational excellence.

I will begin with top line results on Slide 5. Fourth quarter sales were $11.7 billion, up 10% compared to the prior year. On a sequential basis, Q4 sales accelerated 12%, consistent with the expectations we outlined on prior earnings calls with Q4 representing 28% of our full year sales volume. Aeronautics Systems was the fastest-growing segment in the fourth quarter with sales of $3.9 billion, up 18% compared to the prior year. The increase was driven by material timing on the F-35 program, continued ramp on TACAMO and higher volume on the B-21 program, enabled by the liquidation of inventory associated with LRIP Lot 3 and Lot 5 advanced procurement awards received in the quarter.

At DS, Q4 sales grew by 7% on a GAAP basis, 12% organically, with broad-based growth throughout their portfolio. This included higher volume, producing solid rocket motors for the guided multiple launch rocket system, higher sales in the missile defense portfolio, primarily IBCS and an increase on Sentinel as the program continues to ramp. Mission Systems achieved double-digit growth in Q4 driven by strong production volume on restricted programs, F-35, SEWIP and international radar systems. And as we expected, the Space segment returned to growth in the period with sales up 5% compared to fourth quarter of last year. Higher sales were driven by increased production of GEM 63 motors for Amazon's project Leo and increased volume on certain restricted programs. In total, 2025 sales were $42 billion, up 3% organically compared to the prior year and above the high end of the guidance range we provided in Q3.

Moving to bottom line on Slide 6. Strong operational performance continued in Q4 with segment operating income up 10% year-over-year and a segment operating margin rate of 11.2%. AS operating income increased by 20%, driven by higher sales volume and sound program execution, and there were no significant changes to the B-21 EAC in the quarter. Defense Systems operating income was down modestly, principally due to lower net EAC adjustments in the period. Higher sales volume at MS, coupled with favorable mix in the quarter, led to a 9% increase in operating income. And the Space segment had an outstanding quarter of operational performance with operating income up 17% and an operating margin rate of 11.3%. These results were driven by higher net EAC adjustments and a more favorable contract mix.

Turning to EPS on Slide 7. Q4 mark-to-market adjusted earnings per share were $7.23, up 13% compared to last year. The increase was driven by higher sales and strong segment performance. Lastly, I'll take a moment to discuss our cash performance. We had a particularly strong quarter of cash generation in Q4 as is our seasonal pattern. For the year, we generated $3.3 billion in free cash flow, near the high end of our guidance range, up 26% compared to 2024.

I would like to conclude by expressing my sincere appreciation for the Northrop Grumman team. It has been an honor to work with so many amazing people over my 22-year tenure. I want to thank this team for their partnership and unwavering commitment to our customers, shareholders and fellow teammates. I would also like to congratulate John. I've enjoyed working with him over the transition period, and I am confident that the Northrop Grumman team will continue to achieve great things moving forward. John, over to you.

John Greene
Corporate VP & CFO

Thank you, Ken, and good morning, everyone. It's an exciting time to join Northrop Grumman as we enter 2026 with strong momentum across our portfolio. I'll begin on Slide 8 by walking you through our guidance for 2026, including expectations for a year of broad-based growth across the portfolio. Notably, our guidance is consistent with the outlook provided in October and does not yet include an accelerated B-21 production rate. For 2026, we expect sales to be between $43.5 billion and $44 billion, representing mid-single-digit growth at the company. This is supported by strength across all 4 business segments and builds upon our disciplined execution and market demand. We expect Q1 sales to be up low single digits, partially driven by fewer working days in the quarter. Growth is expected to accelerate throughout the year, similar to the cadence experienced in 2025.

On the bottom line, we remain focused on disciplined program execution and margin expansion over time, driven by cost efficiencies, operational leverage and mix. 2026 segment operating income is projected to be between $4.85 billion and $5 billion, reflecting continued strong performance in a low to mid-11% segment operating margin. 2026 mark-to-market adjustment -- adjusted earnings per share are expected between $27.40 and $27.90, up mid-single digits. This includes our latest estimate for pension income, an effective tax rate of low to mid-17% and $620 million in interest expense. We expect roughly $280 million in other unallocated corporate expenses in 2026, a level that is reflective of our normal run rate, excluding unique and extraordinary items. We are assuming our share count will remain relatively flat and 2026 free cash flow continues to be estimated between $3.1 billion and $3.5 billion. We are offsetting a higher capital spend outlook with strong operational cash flows.

Moving to segment level guidance on Slide 9. AS sales are expected to grow to mid-$13 billion. This growth is supported by increased volume on programs like B-21 and TACAMO, partially offset by lower materials volumes and stable production rates on the F-35 and E-2 programs. We also expect a modest headwind on the F/A-18 program with the final production lot completed in the fourth quarter of 2025. Margins are projected to be low to mid 9%, reflecting the higher mix of development programs.

DS remains our fastest-growing segment with sales expected to rise in the low double digits organically to the mid to high $8 billion range. Growth will be broad-based, driven by strong demand across weapons, missile defense and strategic deterrence programs. Operating margins are expected to remain steady at around 10% comparable to the performance in 2025, absent the $76 million favorable EAC adjustment on Sentinel.

MS is projected to deliver sales in the high $12 billion range, building on double-digit growth in 2025 with broad-based demand across their diverse portfolio. Investments in digital technology and factory utilization continued to drive efficiency improvements with margins expected to improve further into the high 14% range this year. Space segment sales are expected to grow to approximately $11 billion in 2026. Growth drivers include higher sales on multiple restricted space and missile defense programs. We expect stable GEM 63 volumes and modest headwinds on NASA programs. Operating income is forecasted to be in the 11% range, consistent with the prior year. Lastly, intersegment eliminations are projected to be approximately $2.4 billion with a high 13% OM rate.

Turning to pension performance on Slide 10. 2025 ended on a strong note with asset returns of 11.3%, improving our funding status to 106%. This year, CAS recoveries are forecasted at $245 million slightly lower than prior projections due to our favorable funding status. We expect to make minimal annual cash contributions over the next several years, consistent with prior guidance.

I'll end my prepared remarks with a few comments on capital deployment. First, $527 million of fixed-rate debt will mature in March and we intend to pay down the note with cash on hand. Our capital deployment strategy remains focused on driving growth and reinvesting in the business to maximize shareholder value. In 2026, capital expenditures are projected to be $1.65 billion, approximately 4% of total sales. This represents an increase compared to prior expectations based on the strong demand environment we see ahead. These investments will enhance production capacity and support the industrial base, ensuring we're positioned to deliver growth well into the future.

Before I close, I wanted to share some personal thoughts. I'm honored to join Northrop Grumman in support of its mission at such an important and exciting time. In the coming years, I look forward to working with this outstanding management team to execute on our strategy and deliver value for our stakeholders.

In summary, 2026 is shaping up to be another year of strong growth with continued momentum across our portfolio. Before I open up the line for Q&A, I also want to thank Ken for his tremendous support during our transition. With that, let's open the call for Q&A.

