Nomad Foods Limited (NOMD) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Jason English - Interim Head of Investor Relations
Stéfan Descheemaeker - CEO & Director
Ruben Baldew - CFO & Director
Martin Ellis Franklin - Co-Founder & Co-Chairman

Conference Call Participants

Andrew Lazar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Scott Marks - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
John Baumgartner - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Jonathan Tanwanteng - CJS Securities, Inc.
Stephen Robert Powers - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Nomad Foods Third Quarter of 2025 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Also, please be aware that today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Jason English, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Jason English
Interim Head of Investor Relations

Hello, and welcome to Nomad Foods Third Quarter 2025 Earnings question-and-answer session. We've posted the associated press release, prepared remarks and investor presentation on Nomad Foods website at noomadfoods.com. I hope you've all had a chance to review them. I'm Jason English, Head of Investor Relations and I'm joined by Stefan Descheemaeker, our CEO; Ruben Baldew, our CFO; and sir Martin E. Franklin, our Co-Founder and Co-Chairman.

During this call, we'll make forward-looking statements about performance that are based on our view of the company's prospects, expectations and intentions at this time. Actual results may differ due to risks and uncertainties discussed in our press release, our filings with the SEC and in our investor presentation, which includes cautionary language. We will also discuss non-IFRS financial measures during the call today. These non-IFRS financial measures should not be considered a replacement for and should not be read together with IFRS results.

Users can find the IFRS to non-IFRS reconciliations within our earnings release and in the appendices at the end of the slide presentation available on our website. Please note that certain financial information within the presentation represents adjusted figures. All adjusted figures have been adjusted primarily for, when applicable, share-based payment expenses and related employer payroll taxes, exceptional items, foreign currency translation charges, or gains. Unless otherwise noted, today's comments from here will refer to those adjusted numbers.

With that, operator, let's open the line to questions.