Oil-Dri Corporation of America (ODC) Q4 2025 Earnings Call October 10, 2025 11:00 AM EDT


Company Participants

Daniel Jaffee - Chairman, CEO & President
Leslie Garber - Director of Investor Relations
Susan Kreh - CFO & Chief Information Officer
Mervyn de Souza - VP of R&D
Bruce Patsey - VP of Fluids Purification
Wade Robey - VP of Agriculture, Oil-Dri Corporation & President of Amlan International
Laura Scheland - VP and General Manager of the Consumer Products Division


Presentation


Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Oil-Dri Corporation of America Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2025 discussion via webcast. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Dan Jaffee, President and CEO of Oil-Dri. Please go ahead.


Daniel Jaffee
Chairman, CEO & President

Thank you, and welcome, everyone, to our fourth quarter fiscal '25 teleconference. Joining me in various locations through the miracles of Modern Science are Susan Kreh, our CFO and CIO; Aaron Christiansen, VP of Operations; Chris Lamson with his new title and new responsibilities as Group Vice President of Business-to-Business and Strategic Growth Initiatives; Wade Robey, Vice President of Ag and President of Amlan International; Laura Scheland, VP and General Manager of the Consumer Products Division; Bruce Patsey, VP of Fluids Purification; Mervyn de Souza, VP of R&D; Tony Parker, VP of General Counsel -- and General Counsel and Secretary; and then, of course, Leslie Garber, our Director of Investor Relations, and Leslie, please walk us through the safe harbor provisions.


Leslie Garber
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Dan, and welcome, everyone. On today's call, comments may contain forward-looking statements regarding the company's performance in future periods. Actual results in those periods may materially differ. In our press release and in our SEC filings, we highlight a number of important risk factors, trends and uncertainties that may affect our future performance. We ask that you review and consider those factors in evaluating the company's comments and in evaluating any investment in Oil-Dri stock.

Thank you for joining us. Dan, turning it back over to you.


Daniel Jaffee
Chairman, CEO & President

Yes. Thanks, Leslie. And I'm going to turn it over to Susan, and I'll make my remarks after her because I don't want to steal her thunder. So Susan, take it away.


Susan Kreh
CFO & Chief Information Officer

Thank you, Dan. And in order to preserve the most time for questions, I'll highlight a few financial matters and then address any other areas of interest in the Q&A portion of this call. But I wanted to start by giving a shout out to Jon Blake, Anna Tenenbaum and the entire corporate accounting team. This is the first 10-Q that Oil-Dri has filed in which we were not using the SEC's smaller reporting company designation. Not only were the additional requirements incorporated well, but in my opinion, this is the highest quality 10-K that the team has produced. So a big thank you to our excellent accounting team.

Now switching back to results. The team here at Oil-Dri continues to deliver robust solutions for our customers that have resulted in the very strong financial performance that we continue to deliver during our fiscal fourth quarter. Revenue increases of 10% over the fourth quarter of the prior year were driven primarily by volume, but our results also benefited from product mix improvements, which resulted in large part from the robust 24% year-over-year revenue growth in our B2B products, an excellent year for them. These products tend to have higher prices and margins than our retail and wholesale products. And therefore, as they increases as an overall part of the portfolio, the product mix becomes more favorable.

On the manufacturing side of the business, during our fourth quarter, we had several planned outages in our production facilities. We used these outages to complete capital projects for both growth initiatives and also to replace aged plant infrastructure. At the same time, we refreshed much of our information technology network hardware and we were able to upgrade our cybersecurity defenses. The financial impact of these outages was not only the capital that we invested, but also incremental contract services and repair expenses as well as the impact of lowering inventories. We used inventory on hand to serve our customers while we were not producing product, and this enabled us to maintain our historically high service levels. As a team, we continue to work to strengthen our balance sheet and to demonstrate our ability to generate cash flow, which is the lifeblood for funding growth and providing returns to our stakeholders.

During fiscal year 2025, Oil-Dri's net cash provided by operating activities was $80 million, a remarkable increase of 33% compared to the net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal year 2024. Additionally, full year EBITDA of $90 million was up 29% over the $70 million EBITDA that was generated during fiscal year 2024. And with that amount of cash on hand, we continue to assess capital allocation in the following order of priority. Our top goal remains investing in our business for long-term sustainability. We continue to invest in our fixed asset base, including our mobile mining equipment. As mentioned earlier, in addition to replacing aged assets, we are investing capital to support current and future growth. For fiscal year 2025, we spent just under $33 million on these types of investments.

Additionally, we invest in people, process and technology to support our growth strategy. One example of this is the investment that we have provided funding during the fiscal year to stand up a centralized data analytics function. This function has been funded to support our commitment to Miney ball or Moneyball type analytics from mining company. While we are in the early stages of this journey, we plan to expand this area to help focus on opportunities to leverage AI or artificial intelligence in applications where the payback generates acceptable returns and doesn't introduce unacceptable levels of risk.

We also use our cash to service our debt. And in fiscal year 2025, we paid down $11 million in debt. $10 million of that debt resulted from a draw on our revolving credit facility to partially finance the Ultra Pet acquisition. At this time, our revolving credit facility is undrawn, and we have full access to the $75 million financing vehicle. We look for and evaluate M&A opportunities to expand our businesses and support our growth strategies. Our Ultra Pet acquisition, which hit its 1-year anniversary of being part of the Oil-Dri portfolio during our fiscal fourth quarter of 2025 is a great example. That acquisition has performed well and has been viewed by our customers very favorably as a value-added product expansion to our portfolio.

We also acquired some key talent with the acquisition that will help drive growth in our core business as well as our Ultra Pet product line. Because of our strong cash position, I often get asked what type of M&A opportunities are of interest to Oil-Dri. We remain committed to our mission of creating value from sorbent minerals. It's what we do day in and day out, and our team has demonstrated that together, we do it well. We believe we will create the most value if we acquire businesses that are closely aligned with our current portfolio. Additionally, we are open to exploring possibilities in other sorbent mineral-based solutions as well as other businesses that would expand our mineral-based product offerings to our current customers. Ultra Pet was a good example of this by providing us with an additional premium product to offer our existing customers.

Another high priority use of our cash is dividends. Our goal here is to provide predictable and sustainable dividends to our shareholders. The announcement during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025 of the 16% dividend per share increase for fiscal year 2026 demonstrates that commitment. We also occasionally buy back shares of our stock to offset the dilution associated with our restricted stock program for our teammates, and we occasionally opportunistically repurchase shares when we believe they are undervalued by the market.

During fiscal year 2025, we did not purchase any shares on the open market but we did buy back shares turned in by our teammates to pay taxes when their restricted shares vested. It's very rewarding to be a part of a team that delivered a year like we had in fiscal 2025. Each year that we continue to set new financial records makes the comparisons more challenging for the next year. The team here at Oil-Dri is up to that challenge as we continue to make strategic investments, launch new products and maintain close relationships with our customers.

And Dan, with that, I'll turn it back over to you.


Daniel Jaffee
Chairman, CEO & President

Okay. Great. Thank you. And before I open up to Q&A, I just want to embellish on a few things. First of all, as you'll recall, those of you who have owned our stock or followed us for the past few years. About 3 years ago, we launched what we called our Capital Recapture Program. And what that was, was a recognition starting from our Board that we were pricing to historic replacement cost for our assets when they were put into service 10 years, let's say, on average 10 years ago. The problem was that those same assets were costing twice as much in today's dollars versus what it cost us to put into service.

So back in '22, our annual depreciation was $13 million, $13.5 million, to be exact. And we were pricing to that $13.5 million. But we realized it was going to cost us at least double to replace those assets or $27 million over time. And as you've been hearing from Susan, we've been spending $30 million and $32 million and $33 million. So it's going to get there eventually. And if you look at our financial statements, you'll see that our annual depreciation which was $13.5 million back in '22 was $19.3 million in '24 and was $22 million last year. So clearly, as we're replacing those assets, the depreciation is going up because we're replacing them at twice the cost of the assets we're taking off the books.

Why am I telling you all this? I'm telling you all this because we get a lot of questions on margins, which we tend never to answer anyway because, look, it's just we're never into the guidance business. We're into focusing and delivering. But on an apples-to-apples basis, look, with mix, we're clearly selling more and more of the high-value stuff. That's in line with our mission of creating value from sorbent minerals and playing what you read, we call it Miney ball, really getting into the analytics of our business. But apples-to-apples, let's say a 40-pound bag of Oil-Dri floor absorbent to a 40-pound bag of Oil-Dri floor absorbent. Well, in 2022, that 40-pound bag was being charged at a depreciation rate based on the company of $13 million, now it's $22 million.

So clearly, the cost of those items is going up. And I could not be more appreciative of our customers who when we went to them back in 2022, said, we're going to price to these higher depreciation levels even though that isn't the cost currently being experienced. So again, long-winded way of saying, apples-to-apples, there's going to be a lot of margin pressure on some of these historic products because we've been pricing to a higher replacement cost but the cash generation stays the same. And as Susan pointed out, and we have paid a dividend every year since we went public in 1971. And we've raised it now, I want to say, 22 years in a row. And so we're very protective of our cash flow. We run the business and my dad always used to say, earnings or an opinion, cash is a fact.

So for the first time in a long time, we gave some forward guidance on earnings just to help you see what we're seeing. And if you look at the news release, I'll just read it for you. It says, as we enter fiscal year 2026, the first 6 months will be measured against a particularly strong first half of fiscal year 2025, creating challenging comparisons. However, we remain confident in our ability to build on our past success and continue to deliver growth of our diverse product portfolio. So what does all that mean? It means we're going to have a tough year-to-year comparison in the first half because, look, it was gangbusters this past fiscal 2025, records in every year. But the team and I have put together a plan and have every expectation of delivering a year that beats last year. Obviously, we've given you the safe harbor. No one knows what's going to happen but I will tell you, first half is going to be challenging. We are hoping for and planning for a very successful fiscal 2026.

So with that, I will turn it over because I don't want to get into any more trouble with the lawyers or the safe harbor provisions. But I think you -- hopefully, you can understand or appreciate the guidance that I am giving.

So Leslie, I'm going to turn it over to you, and you can conduct the Q&A.