Ollie's Bargain Outlet Holdings, Inc. (OLLI) Q3 2026 Earnings Call December 9, 2025 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

John Rouleau
Eric van der Valk - President, CEO & Director
Robert Helm - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Charles Grom - Gordon Haskett Research Advisors
Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Steven Zaccone - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Bradley Thomas - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Sarah Morin - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Mary Smart
Joshua Young - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Anthony Chukumba - Loop Capital Markets LLC, Research Division
Mark Carden - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Lauren Ng - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Edward Kelly - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jeremy Hamblin - Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to Ollie's Bargain Outlet conference call to discuss financial results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2025. Please be advised that this call is being recorded, and the reproduction of this call in whole or in part is not permitted without the express written authorization of Ollie's. I would now like to introduce our host for today's call, John Rouleau, Managing Director of Corporate Communications and Business Development for Ollie's. John, please go ahead.

John Rouleau

Thank you, and good morning, everybody. We appreciate your time and participation. Joining me on today's call from Ollie's are Eric van der Valk, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Robert Helm, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Following their prepared remarks, we will open the call for your questions. We ask that you initially limit yourself to one question to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to participate. If you have additional questions, please reenter the queue. Finally, let me remind you that certain comments made on today's call may constitute forward-looking statements, and these are made pursuant to and within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as amended.

Such forward-looking statements are subject to both known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. These risks and uncertainties are described in the company's earnings press release and filings with the SEC, including the annual report on Form 10-K and the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Forward-looking statements made today are as of the date of this call, and the company does not undertake any obligation to update these statements. On today's call, the company will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of the most closely comparable GAAP financial measures to the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the company's earnings press release.

With that all said, it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Eric.

Eric van der Valk
President, CEO & Director

Good morning. Thank you for joining us today. Our team delivered another strong performance in the third quarter. We opened a record number of new stores, continued to accelerate membership growth in our Ollie's Army loyalty program, widened our price gaps to the fancy stores and delivered industry-leading sales growth, all while driving significant improvement on the bottom line. We are primed and ready for the final days of the holiday season. Our expanded assortment of seasonal and gift items, along with our amazing deals of brand name household products make us the holiday shopping destination. Our comp trends since early October have been strong, and we feel great about our momentum heading into the final weeks of the holiday season.

With the better-than-expected third quarter results and a very good start to the fourth quarter, we are raising our full year sales and earnings outlook. Let me provide an update on our strategic growth initiatives and some of the things we are doing from a merchandising, marketing and supply chain perspective to drive our business. Accelerated unit growth and customer acquisition remain our top priorities. We have a predictable, portable and profitable store model that is unlike anything else in the market. We have a huge opportunity ahead of us to continue growing.

Our long-term target is 1,300 stores, and we are committed to a minimum 10% annual unit growth to get there. We have the talent and have built the infrastructure to exceed our long-term algo and are delivering accelerated unit growth. We opened 32 new stores in the third quarter and 86 for the year, which is 18% growth. This blew away previous Ollie's records and demonstrated our ability to exceed our algo opportunistically. The current environment has been challenging for many retailers, and this, coupled with long-term consolidation in retail, presents a pivotal opportunity for Ollie's to secure attractive second-generation real estate sites.

Our entire team deserves a huge shout out for their achievements this year. Not only do we open a record number of new stores, all of our stores were opened before the fourth quarter. We have not made this happen for years, and this allows us to be 100% focused on driving the business in the final months of the year and the critical holiday shopping period. Thank you again, Ollie's dream team of discount retail for making this happen. Opening stores is the first component of our growth strategy. Next is winning the hearts and minds of new customers.

We have some of the most dedicated and passionate customers in the business and are fiercely committed to this group. As we open -- as we continue to open new stores, we are focused on acquiring new customers and turning them into loyal Ollie's Army Bargainnots. Our members shop more frequently and spend over 40% more per visit than non-members. They are very important to our business, and we have an opportunity to strengthen our connection and drive lifetime customer value. We are very pleased with customer growth in the third quarter.

New memberships in our loyalty program increased 30% year-over-year, while our customer file increased 12%. We have seen new customer acquisition strengthen since the first half of the year and engagement with our existing customers remain strong. Both the younger and higher income groups were the fastest-growing cohorts in the quarter, which we think is in part driven by the continued reallocation of marketing dollars to digital, consumers seeking value and customers trading down. We also continue to enhance the value proposition of our Ollie's Army loyalty program.

Last quarter, we talked about the success of the additional Ollie's Army Night and some of the learnings there. The biggest takeaway was the adjustment to the start time of the event. We received positive feedback about the earlier start time and experienced increased foot traffic as a result. The upcoming Ollie's Army Night on Sunday, December 14, will run from 4:00 to 9:00 p.m. compared to 6:00 to 10:00 p.m. last year. If you're not already a member of Ollie's Army, what are you waiting for? We invite you to join, and we look forward to seeing all of you this Sunday.

On the merchandising front, let me touch on how we're steering our product mix to drive sales productivity and enhance new customer acquisition. Our flexible buying model and treasure hunt shopping experience give us unlimited flexibility in how we assemble our product offering. Our buyers are continuously scouring the marketplace to find the best products at the best prices to put together an ever-changing assortment that combines quality, national brands and price in a way that can only be found at Ollie's.

At the same time, we know that customers are prioritizing their spending around their needs and are looking for value. By focusing on value-driven consumable deals, we achieved mid-single-digit increase in comparable store transactions, attracting new customers and increasing engagement. Our deal flow continues to be very strong and driven in part by the challenging retail environment. On top of this, our growing size and scale is starting to give us opportunity to steer our category mix. A good example of this is the increased investment we made in the seasonal category. As you may have seen in our stores, we dramatically increased the assortment of seasonal decor over the past year, with the most meaningful changes taking place in our fall harvest, Halloween and Christmas categories.

We also grew our holiday gift programs that we initially successfully tested last year. The changes have been well received by our consumers with seasonal being one of our top-performing categories in the quarter and throughout the year. Marketing continues to be a critical lever in fueling the growth of our business. And over the past year, we've been accelerating a major evolution in how we connect with our customers. As consumer attention shifts -- continues to shift towards digital platforms, our strategy is shifting as well.

By moving from traditional linear and print-heavy approaches to a more dynamic digital-first strategy, we can deliver the right message to the right person in the right place at exactly the right time. A recent comprehensive review of our media mix model indicated a significant opportunity to further reallocate print spend to digital media. Acting on this data, we put a test in place and our strategic reallocation is already proving out. October was our strongest month of the quarter at a time when we meaningfully reduced our print campaign. This allowed us to leverage our media spend while driving sales above plan in the quarter.

More importantly, this is in pursuit of a smarter, more targeted, more modern marketing ecosystem. To support the growth of our business, we continue to invest in our supply chain. Over the next year, we plan to expand our Texas distribution center by 150,000 square feet and increase our service capacity by approximately 50 stores to 800. Next on the list is the expansion of our Illinois distribution center, which will start late next year. Our supply chain investments have driven throughput, leverage costs and expanded our capacity to buy any deal, anytime, anywhere as we continue on our path of contiguous growth.

I would like to thank all of our dedicated and hard-working associates. Deep discount retail is not an easy business, and it requires continuous coordination and relentless execution. We came into this year with a very unique opportunity to accelerate our growth and capture abandoned market share from the store closures and distressed retailers. Our team was ready for the challenge and stepped up all year long. I want to wish everyone happy holidays and hope that all of our team members are able to enjoy time with friends and family.

Now let me turn the call over to Rob.

Robert Helm
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Eric, and good morning, everyone. We are very pleased with our third quarter results and the momentum in our business. New store openings, new store performance, sales and earnings were all ahead of our expectations for the quarter. With the better-than-expected results and a very good start to the fourth quarter, we're raising our full year sales and earnings outlook. Accelerating new unit growth and expanding the Ollie's Army loyalty program are 2 big priorities this year. We are delivering on both of these initiatives. We opened 32 new stores in the third quarter and ended the period with a total of 645 stores, an increase of more than 18% year-over-year.

Ollie's Army members increased 12% to 16.6 million members strong, driven by new customer acquisition. With the consumer buying closer to need and prioritizing necessity over discretionary items, this has driven strength in consumer staples. Our flexible buying model has allowed us to feed this trend, which has been very well received by customers. We have also taken advantage of a number of closeout deals that have fueled positive trends in customer acquisition, transactions and unit volumes. We intentionally pursued these deals to drive customer growth and engagement even as they put some pressure on average unit retail and basket size.

Now let me run through our P&L numbers. Net sales increased 19% to $614 million, driven by new store openings and comparable store sales growth. Comparable store sales increased 3.3%, driven by a mid-single-digit increase in transactions, which was partially offset by a decrease in average ticket price. Our top 5 performing categories were food, seasonal, hardware, stationery, and lawn and garden. Gross margin decreased 10 basis points to 41.3%. The slight decrease was better than our expectations and was driven by higher supply chain costs, primarily incremental tariff expenses, which were partially offset by higher merchandise margins.

SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales decreased 50 basis points to 29.4%, with the decrease primarily driven by lower professional fees, stock-based compensation and leverage from the continued optimization of our marketing ecosystem. Preopening expenses increased 3% to $7 million in the quarter, driven by new store growth and $1 million of dark rent expense associated with the former Big Lots locations that were acquired through the bankruptcy auction process.

Moving down to the bottom line. Adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share increased 29% to $46 million and $0.75, respectively, for the quarter. Lastly, adjusted EBITDA increased 22% to $73 million and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 30 basis points to 11.9% for the quarter. Turning to the balance sheet. Our total cash and investments increased by 42% to $432 million, and we had no meaningful long-term debt at the end of the quarter.

Given the nature of our business, the strength of our balance sheet is a strategic asset. Our financial stability, the visibility of being a public company and our size and scale help distinguish us in the closeout and off-price space. As a result, we remain committed to a fortress type of balance sheet as it helps drive our business. Inventories increased 16% year-over-year, primarily driven by our accelerating store growth and strong deal flow. Capital expenditures totaled $31 million for the quarter, with the majority of the spending going towards the opening of new stores, the build-out of the bankruptcy acquired stores and to a lesser degree, investments in both our supply chain and existing stores.

We bought back $12 million worth of our common stock in the quarter and had $293 million remaining under our current share repurchase authorization at the end of the quarter. Lastly, let me run through our outlook for fiscal 2025. We're raising both our sales and earnings outlook for the full year. Our revised outlook flows through the upside in our third quarter results and mostly keeps our outlook for the fourth quarter in place. It also assumes the current tariffs remain in place for the balance of the year.

Our updated guidance figures are contained in the table in our earnings release posted this morning and include 86 new store openings, net sales of $2.648 billion to $2.655 billion, comparable store sales growth of 3.2% to 3.5%. Gross margin in the range of 40.3%, operating income of $293 million to $298 million and adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share of $236 million to $239 million and $3.81 to $3.87, respectively. These estimates assume depreciation and amortization expenses of $55 million, inclusive of $15 million within cost of goods sold, preopening expenses of $25 million, which is slightly higher than the previous guidance with our pipeline for the first quarter now set.

An annual effective tax rate of approximately 24%, which excludes the tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, diluted weighted average shares outstanding of approximately 62 million and capital expenditures of approximately $88 million, which includes the build-out of the former Big Lots locations and the initial expenses associated with the expansion of our DC in Texas. Our fourth quarter comp outlook is now in the range of positive 2% to 3%. We will not be opening any additional stores in fiscal 2025, but our new openings in fiscal 2026 are set and will again be front-end weighted.

Given the strength of our pipeline, we expect new store openings in 2026 to remain above our long-term growth algo, and we're targeting 75 new stores next year. In closing, let me thank my fellow team members for their work and dedication this year. We came into the year with unique opportunity to accelerate our growth and increase our market share. This required a lot of coordination and effort across the organization, and I couldn't be more proud of how our teams have executed this year. With a strong assortment of both seasonal and everyday items, we feel good about our positioning heading into the holidays and are poised to finish the year strong. Happy holidays to all of our associates and team members around the country.

Now let me turn the call back to Eric.

Eric van der Valk
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Rob. Looking ahead, we feel very good about our positioning. Customers are looking for value, manufacturer need ways to manage their supply chain and the retail sector is consolidating. Ollie's benefits from these powerful secular trends, which are reflected in our fundamentals. Our customer base is expanding. Our deal flow has never been better. Our store growth is accelerating. Our price gaps are widening and our margins are expanding. We are delivering strong and consistent results. We are winning the hearts and minds of customers. And most importantly, we are...

Operator, we are ready for questions.