Oracle Corporation (ORCL) Q2 2026 Earnings Call December 10, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Ken Bond - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Douglas Kehring - Executive VP & Principal Financial Officer
Clay Magouyrk - Chief Executive Officer & Director
Lawrence Ellison - Co-Founder, Chairman & CTO
Mike Sicilia - Chief Executive Officer & Director

Conference Call Participants

Brad Zelnick - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Benjamin Reitzes - Melius Research LLC
Tyler Radke - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Brent Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Mark Moerdler - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
John DiFucci - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and thank you for standing by. My name is Tiffany, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Oracle Corporation Q2 FY '26 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to Ken Bond, Head of Investor Relations. Sir, please go ahead.

Ken Bond
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Tiffany. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Oracle's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Conference Call. On the call today are Chairman and Chief Technology Officer, Larry Ellison; Chief Executive Officer, Mike Sicilia; Chief Executive Officer, Clay Magouyrk; and Principal Financial Officer, Doug Kehring.

A copy of the press release and financial tables, which includes a GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation, other supplemental financial information and a list of many customers who purchased Oracle Cloud Services or went live on Oracle Cloud recently will be available from our Investor Relations website. As a reminder, today's discussion will include forward-looking statements, and we will discuss some important factors relating to our business. These forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from statements being made today. As a result, we caution you from placing undue reliance on these forward-looking statements and we encourage you to review our most recent reports, including our 10-K and 10-Q and any applicable amendments. And finally, we are not obligating ourselves to revise our results or these financial-looking statements.

Before taking questions, we'll begin with a few prepared remarks. And I'll now turn the call over to Mike.

Douglas Kehring
Executive VP & Principal Financial Officer

No, it's actually to me, Ken. Appreciate it. This is Doug. As it relates to the numbers we are about to present, the following apply to both the results for Q2 and to our guidance for Q3. First, we'll be discussing our financials using constant currency growth rates as this is how we manage the business. Second, we'll be presenting our numbers on a non-GAAP basis, except where we indicate otherwise. Finally, as it relates to currency, it had a 1% positive impact on revenue and $0.03 positive impact on earnings in Q2. For Q3, assuming currency exchange rates remain the same as they are now, currency should have a 2% to 3% positive effect on revenue and have a $0.06 positive effect on EPS depending on rounding.

In terms of the results for Q2, we had another excellent quarter of execution. Remaining performance obligations, or RPO, ended the quarter at $523.3 billion, up 433% from last year and up $68 billion since the end of August, driven by contracts signed with Meta, NVIDIA and others as we continue to diversify our customer backlog. RPO, expected to be recognized in the next 12 months, grew 40% year-over-year compared with 25% last quarter and 21% last year.

Total cloud revenue, which includes both applications and infrastructure, was up 33% at $8 billion representing a significant acceleration from the 24% growth rate reported last year. Cloud revenue now accounts for half of Oracle's overall revenue. Cloud infrastructure revenue was $4.1 billion, up 66% with GPU-related revenue growing 177%. Oracle's Cloud Infrastructure businesses continue to grow much faster than our competitors. Cloud database services revenue was up 30% with Autonomous Database revenue up 43% and Multicloud consumption up 817%.

Cloud applications revenue was $3.9 billion and up 11%. Our strategic back-office applications revenue was $2.4 billion and up 16%. As we finish combining our industry-based cloud apps and our Fusion cloud apps under one selling organization in each region across the world, we have been seeing increasing cross-selling synergies that are expected to drive higher cloud applications growth rates in the future.

All in, total revenues for the quarter were $16.1 billion, up 13% and higher than the 9% growth reported in Q2 last year, continuing our trend of accelerating total revenue growth. Operating income grew 8% to $6.7 billion. Non-GAAP EPS was $2.26, up 51%, while GAAP EPS was $2.10, up 86%. We recognized a pretax gain of $2.7 billion in the quarter stemming from the sale of our interest in Ampere.

Turning to cash flow. Operating cash flow in Q2 was $2.1 billion, while free cash flow was a negative $10 billion and CapEx was $12 billion reflecting the investments being made to support our accelerating growth. As a reminder, the vast majority of our CapEx investments are for revenue-generating equipment that is going into our data centers and not for land, buildings or power that collectively are covered via leases. Oracle does not pay for these leases until the completed data centers and accompanying utilities are delivered to us. Rather the equipment CapEx is purchased very late in the data center production cycle, allowing us to quickly convert cash spent into revenues earned as we provision cloud services to our contracted and committed customers.

In terms of funding our growth, there are a variety of sources available to us throughout our debt structure in public bond, bank and private debt markets. In addition, there are other financing options through customers that may bring their own chips to be installed in our data centers and suppliers who may lease their chips rather than sell them. Both of these options enable Oracle to synchronize our payments with our receipts and borrow substantially less than most people are modeling. As a foundational principle, we expect and are committed to maintaining our investment-grade debt rating.

Turning to guidance. Let me start with the impact of the added RPO that occurred in Q2 on our future results. The vast majority of these bookings relate to opportunities where we have near-term capacity available, which means we can convert the added backlog to revenue sooner. The result is we now expect $4 billion of additional revenue in FY '27. Our full year FY '26 revenue expectation of $67 billion remains unchanged. However, given the added RPO this quarter that can be monetized quickly starting next year. We now expect fiscal 2026 CapEx will be about $15 billion higher than we forecasted after Q1. Finally, we are confident that our customer backlog is at a healthy level and that we have the operational and financial strength to execute successfully.

While we continue to experience significant and unprecedented demand for our cloud services, we will pursue further business expansion only when it meets our profitability requirements, and the capital is available on favorable terms. As it relates to specific guidance for Q3, total cloud revenue is expected to grow from 37% to 41% in constant currency and is expected to grow from 40% to 44% in USD. Total revenues are expected to grow from 16% to 18% in constant currency and are expected to grow from 19% to 21% in USD. Non-GAAP EPS is expected to grow between 12% to 14% and be between $1.64 and $1.68 in constant currency and grow between 16% to 18% and be between $1.70 and $1.74 in USD.

And with that, I'll turn it over to Clay.

Clay Magouyrk
Chief Executive Officer & Director

Thank you, Doug. Our infrastructure business has grown at an accelerating 66% year-over-year. We are well aware of the strong demand for AI infrastructure, but multiple segments across OCI are also contributing to this accelerating growth rate, including cloud native, dedicated regions and Multicloud. Our diversity of capabilities within infrastructure differentiates us from AI infrastructure neoclouds.

Our unique combination of infrastructure and applications differentiates us from other hyperscalers. We have ambitious achievable goals for capacity delivery worldwide. OCI now operates 147 live customer-facing regions with 64 more regions planned. In the last quarter, we handed over close to 400 megawatts of data center capacity to our customers. We also delivered 50% more GPU capacity this quarter than Q1. Our Supercluster in Abilene, Texas is on track with more than 96,000 NVIDIA Grace Blackwell GB200 delivered. We also began delivering AMD MI355 capacity to customers this quarter.

Our pace of capacity delivery continues to accelerate. We continue to see strong demand for AI infrastructure across training and inferencing. We follow a very rigorous process before accepting customer contracts. This process ensures that we have all the necessary ingredients deliver to customer success at margins that make sense for our business. We analyze land and power for data center buildings, component supply, including GPUs, network gear and optics, labor costs for all phases of construction and low voltage work, engineering capacity to design, build and operate, revenue and profitability and capital investments required.

Only when all these components come together do we accept customer contracts, having the confidence we can deliver on schedule with the highest quality. As Doug said, this quarter, we contracted for an additional $68 billion of RPO. These contracts will quickly add revenue and margin to our infrastructure business. We continue to carefully evaluate all future infrastructure investments, investing only when we have alignment across all necessary components to ensure profitable delivery for our customers.

The holiday season is peak period for many of our retail and consumer customers. It is our responsibility at OCI to deliver the most secure, highest performance and highest availability infrastructure to support these customers at the scale they need. Uber has now surpassed 3 million cores on OCI, powering their highest traffic ever this Halloween. Temu scaled to nearly 1 million cores for Black Friday and Cyber Monday. In addition, we also supported thousands of other customers across our retail and other applications through their largest and most successful holiday period yet.

OCI is constantly expanding in features and services. We recently launched Acceleron, delivering enhanced networking to all OCI customers and other services like our AI agent service. However, we cannot deliver everything ourselves, and we rely on our rapidly expanding partner community to provide the best experience on OCI. We added new AI models from Google, OpenAI and xAI to ensure our customers have the latest and greatest AI capabilities.

Our marketplace consumption has grown 89% year-over-year powered by partners like Broadcom and Palo Alto. Those same partners drive OCI consumption by building their SaaS businesses on OCI. Palo Alto released their SASE and Prisma Access platform on OCI and Cybereason and Newfold Digital continue to scale their businesses rapidly. These partnerships make our ecosystem richer which helps our customers, and that growth translates directly into more OCI growth as our partners build their solutions on our infrastructure.

Oracle database services see increasing demand across all clouds. Multicloud database consumption has increased 817% year-over-year. We launched 11 Multicloud regions this quarter bringing us to 45 regions live across AWS, Azure and GCP with 27 more planned over the next month. We see increasing customer demand with billions in identified pipeline. We launched 2 important programs this quarter for Multicloud. The first is Multicloud Universal Credits, which enables customers to commit once to Oracle database services and use them anywhere in any cloud with the same price and flexibility. The second is our Multicloud channel reseller program, which enables customers to procure Oracle database services through their preferred channel partners.

We also launched 9 services across the different clouds such as Oracle Autonomous AI Lakehouse. This combination of the best services, universal availability, consistent and easy pricing and procurement and partner support is accelerating the adoption of Oracle database services across our entire customer base. OCI is the only full cloud available to individual customers. We launched Dedicated Region 25 which provides the full capability of OCI in a tiny 3-Rack footprint.

OCI is also the only cloud that enables partners to become cloud providers themselves through our Alloy program, and our new footprint is available for all Alloy providers. Dedicated Region and Alloy consumption grew 69% year-over-year. We launched one dedicated region for ITHCA Group in Oman and both NTT Data and SoftBank launched one Alloy region each this quarter. This brings our live dedicated regions to 39 with 25 more planned.

In summary, the 4 segments of our infrastructure business are growing at incredible rates. This will contribute to a continued acceleration in our infrastructure revenue in the coming quarters. Customers are choosing OCI for its performance, optimized architecture, unrelenting focus on security, consistently low and predictable pricing and unmatched depth in database and enterprise integrations. Those priorities have been our strategy from the beginning and are the driving force behind this growth. OCI is in a constant state of reinvention, and you can see the value that has for our customers. When you combine our commitment to deliver the best in performance, efficiency and security with the growing customer demand for cloud infrastructure services we are seeing, I couldn't be more excited about what's coming next.

And with that, over to Larry.

Lawrence Ellison
Co-Founder, Chairman & CTO

Thank you very much, Clay. Over the years, Oracle has developed software in 3 important areas: database, applications and the Oracle Cloud. We used AI to make our database software, and our Autonomous software eliminates human labor and human error, thus lowering operating costs and making our systems faster, more reliable and more secure. Now with the development of the Oracle AI database and the Oracle AI data platform, we're bringing all 3 layers of our software stacked together to solve another very important problem. Enabling the latest and most powerful AI models to do multistep reasoning on all your private enterprise data while keeping that data private and secure.

Training AI models on public data is the largest, fastest-growing business in history. AI models reasoning on private data will be an even larger and more valuable business. Oracle databases contain most of the world's high-value private data. Oracle applications also hold huge amounts of exceptionally valuable private data. The Oracle Cloud includes all the top AI models, OpenAI, ChatGPT, xAI Grok, Google Gemini and Meta Llama. Oracle's new database and AI data platform, plus the latest versions of Oracle applications enables all of those AI models to do multistep reasoning on your database and application data while keeping that data private and secure.

All our database and application customers want to do this. Because for the first time, they get a unified view of all of their data. AI models can respond to a single inquiry by reasoning across all your databases, all of your applications, by treating all of your data holistically, the combination of AI models plus the Oracle AI database and AI data platform breaks down the walls that isolate and fragment your data. The Oracle AI data platform makes all your data, all your data accessible to AI models, not just Oracle databases and Oracle applications, the data in Oracle databases and Oracle applications, but data from other databases, cloud storage from any cloud, even data from your own custom applications are accessible to AI models using the Oracle AI data platform.

Using our AI data platform, you can unify all your data and reason on all of your data using the very latest AI models. This is the key to finally unlocking all the value in all your data. Very soon through the lens of AI, you will be able to see everything happening in your business as it happens.

Mike, over to you.

Mike Sicilia
Chief Executive Officer & Director

Thanks, Larry. As Doug shared, the total revenue growth up 13% in constant dollars, I think it's worth noting that, that's three consecutive quarters now where total revenue growth has been in double digits. So a solid quarter and we see even better days ahead of us. So let me break down a few of the numbers a bit further, and I'll do so all in constant currency.

Cloud applications revenue was up 11% and that brings us to about a $16 billion annualized run rate. Within that, Fusion ERP up 17%. Fusion SCM up 18%. Fusion HCM up 14%. NetSuite grew by 13%. Fusion CX is up 12%. In our industry cloud, specifically hospitality, construction, retail, banking, restaurants, local governments and communications, all combined were up 21% in the quarter.

So big growth rates on a big base. In our health care business, we now have 274 customers live in production on our clinical AI agent and that number continues to rise daily. Also in health care, our brand-new AI-based ambulatory EHR is generally available, and it has received U.S. regulatory approval. And finally, in health care, in Q3, we expect both our bookings and our revenue to accelerate materially.

So overall, cloud apps were up 11% on a bigger base. This is very meaningful because we see this business as continuing to accelerate going forward. We achieved this growth while we also undertook a major sales force reorg in many regions throughout the world. This is something we've been talking about for many years, that is the synergies between our back-office applications and our industry applications.

We're seeing more and more deals where our industry apps are pulling Fusion, or the Fusion apps are pulling the industry apps. And as a result of seeing more and more deals, we're also seeing larger deals with more components. So recently, we combined our industry application sales team and our Fusion sales teams into a single selling organization. This enables our sellers to have more strategic 1 Oracle conversations with our customers to sell higher and to sell more.

And then when you think about our very large installed base of on-premise application customers, these strategic conversations are driving upgrades. And you've heard us say before, just moving a customer to the cloud results in a 3 to 5x annual revenue lift compared to support revenue. Now on top of all that, top of the sales force, the 1 Oracle go-to-market wonderful go-to-market motions, the industry suites, think about combining our AI data platform with this unmatched suite of applications.

This creates an incredibly unique opportunity for our customers to gain value very quickly from enterprise-grade AI. The combination allows customers to unite the industry-leading foundational models with company-specific proprietary data, as Larry mentioned, much of which comes from the Oracle applications. And of course, the AI data platform also ties in non-Oracle applications, competitive data sources like MongoDB or Snowflake, object stores and even complete bespoke unstructured data.

So we think this allows our customers to very easily build enterprise lakehouses, AI agents and applications that leverage built in, not bolted on, but built in AI to transform their business. So just to repeat, AI, of course, is a great OCI play, but it's also a broader software play for Oracle. It's driving growth in our applications, in our database businesses as well.

Let me highlight a few key wins. In communications, the communications industry, DigitalBridge Holdings selected ERP and SCM. Etihad Salam Telecom, SCM. Motorola Solutions, ERP, SCM and CX. TIM Brasil, who is the country of Brazil's 5G leader, just signed a new 5-year expansion to accelerate AI adoption and to transform customer experience at scale, all built on OCI. This actually -- this 5-year deal was an expansion, an extension of a partnership that began with TIM Brasil's full data center migration to OCI back in 2021.

So they're now building AI agents that are powering real customer interactions, including the Conta agent which compares bills for customers across months and explains variations automatically, already in the pilot, 18% faster issue resolution with the AI agents built on OCI, expecting even further improvements as the rollout continues. They've got 24 projects in motion, 7 of them are already in production in just a matter of months, 6 more launching soon, all enabled by a Multicloud architecture with Oracle as the key AI infrastructure partner.

Already as a result of this initial rollout, customer satisfaction is up 16% and call center flows are managing end-to-end with 90% accuracy resulting in 30% faster services times for customers and a 15% fewer network failure interventions, all using predictive analytics and again, AI copilots built in OCI. So we are the AI engine for Tim Brasil to enable personalization at national scale.

In financial services, CoreCivic selected ERP, SCM and HCM. Prime Life Technologies, ERP. Jewelers Mutual Insurance, ERP. In public sector, City of Costa Mesa, ERP, SCM, HCM. The United States Space Force, ERP and HCM. The City of Santa Ana, ERP, SCM and HCM. In the high-tech industry, SolarEdge Technologies, ERP and SCM. Zscaler, ERP. Dropbox, ERP and SCM. I could go on and on about these wins, but I think it gives you the flavor of just the sheer amount of multi-pillar wins and why it's so important that we have so many different options for customers in back office and front office.

In terms of go-lives, we had 330 cloud apps customer go-lives this quarter. That's multiple go-lives per day. Virgin Atlantic Airways went live in September on Fusion ERP and HCM and payroll. Broadridge just recently relaunched their Fusion ERP and EPM go-live. Lifepoint Health just went live on their third wave of Fusion ERP, SCM and HCM. Saudi Telecom is live on Fusion SCM with ERP and HCM to follow soon. DocuSign is now live on Fusion Data Intelligence. Again, I could go on about the go lives with 330 of them in the quarter, gives you a flavor of some of the really important go-lives that we had recently. The cloud application deferred revenue is up 14%. That is higher than the cloud apps revenue growth of 11%, just to reinforce my earlier statements that we expect continued apps growth acceleration.

So a solid quarter across the board. We're on the back end of a sales reorg that was focused on unified selling across our applications portfolio. We're seeing a clear AI halo effect for our cloud applications which is driving upgrades. Our AI data platform combined with our applications is an absolute conversation changer, and it brings the Oracle database and all of our applications into the center of the modern agentic enterprise. Looking ahead, we're executing well on a big and growing pipeline, and I expect revenue and earnings growth to accelerate off an even larger base.

With that, Ken, I'll turn it back to you.

Ken Bond
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, Mike. Tiffany, if you could please poll the audience for questions.