Paychex, Inc. (PAYX) Q2 2026 Earnings Call December 19, 2025 9:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Robert Schrader - Senior VP & CFO
John Gibson - President, CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Mark Marcon - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Bryan Bergin - TD Cowen, Research Division
Bryan Keane - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Tien-Tsin Huang - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Andrew Nicholas - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
James Faucette - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Samad Samana - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
William Qi - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Kartik Mehta - Northcoast Research Partners, LLC
Scott Wurtzel - Wolfe Research, LLC
Jason Kupferberg - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to Paychex Second Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. Participating on the call today are John Gibson and Bob Schrader. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, and your participation implies consent to our recording of this call.

I would now like to turn the call over to Bob Schrader, Paychex' Chief Financial Officer.

Robert Schrader
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you for joining us to discuss Paychex second quarter fiscal 2026 results. Our earnings release and presentation are available on our Investor Relations website. We plan to file our Form 10-Q with the SEC within a couple of business days. This call is being webcast live and will be available for replay on our Investor Relations portal.

Today's call includes forward-looking statements that refer to future events and involve some risk. We encourage you to review our filings with the SEC for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ from our current expectations. We will also reference non-GAAP financial measures. A description of these items along with a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures can be found in our earnings release.

I would now like to turn the call over to John Gibson, our President and CEO.

John Gibson
President, CEO & Director

Thanks, Bob. I'll start with the second quarter business highlights, and then Bob will cover financial results and our outlook. And then afterwards, of course, we'll open it up for your questions. We delivered solid second quarter results with revenue up 18% year-over-year and adjusted operating income grew 21% over the prior year driven by higher productivity as we continue to demonstrate our long-standing capability to be the best operators and begin to drive AI into our operational systems and overall DNA of the company. We are proud of the significant progress we've made in advancing our strategic priorities including the Paycor acquisition and integration and our data and AI initiatives.

We continue to make progress on the Paycor integration. As best operators, we continue to identify additional expense opportunities and now expect approximately $100 million in cost synergies for fiscal year 2026. We also remain on track to achieve the revenue synergies targets we set for this fiscal year. We continue to strengthen broker relationships through our Partner Plus program and refresh value proposition centered on delivering greater value to our partners as we continue to expand and fully integrate the Paychex enterprise team with Paycor.

Cross-sales efforts continue to gain traction, including broker referred PEO deals and with larger clients than initially anticipated. We continue to make steady progress executing our go-to-market, technology and cultural integration initiatives that are critical in an acquisition of this size, scale and complexity. Our PEO business continues to perform well, achieving market-leading mid-single-digit worksite employee growth, driven by strong demand and near-record retention.

Our PEO solution empowers small businesses to offer competitive benefit packages on par with Fortune 500 companies, supporting their efforts to attract and retain talent in a tight labor market. October enrollment for our at-risk Florida MPP plan came in largely as expected and early indications for January enrollment gives us confidence in finishing the year with solid revenue growth in the PEO. Regarding the labor market, our clients' workforce levels remain relatively stable with flat same-store employment growth this quarter.

Our Small Business Employment Watch Index, while down from last year, has remained relatively stable throughout 2025, and our other indicators show no signs of a recession at this time. Small businesses continue to face challenges sourcing qualified talent in competitive labor markets, areas where we believe our solution are uniquely positioned to add value. They are also looking for ways to manage cost. We remain confident in our value proposition and demand for our HR technology and advisory solutions continues to be in line with our expectations. We are halfway through the year and pleased with the progress we've made to date.

As we look at where we are today in the middle of our busy selling season, we have seen some trends that impact a few key metrics. Bob will provide more color about how we are thinking about those in context of the balance of the year. Given the increased focus on AI, this morning, we published a presentation outlining why we believe Paychex is well positioned to succeed in this AI era, why we see ourselves as less exposed to AI employment risk, and how we are capitalizing on AI-driven opportunities. I encourage you to review it, but I'll share a few highlights.

Starting with AI-related employee risk. We believe our portfolio is less exposed due to our client base and our business model. Over 70% of our clients' employees work in blue and gray-collar industries that are harder to displace and the majority work at smaller businesses where staff often wear multiple hats and AI investment tends to be lower. If AI disrupts large firms disproportionately, talent may shift to smaller businesses, benefiting our clients. Meanwhile, our clients continue to face talent shortages and AI can help improve efficiencies to address those gaps.

From a business model perspective, our revenue model has a significant fixed base fee component and has for years providing downside protection against employment fluctuations. We also differentiate from tech-only providers by combining advanced technology with HR experts who provide strategic guidance and nuanced advice which is difficult for our competitors and AI to replicate. In terms of our differentiation, AI success hinges on data quality and data scale. With one of the largest proprietary datasets in the industry, we believe we have a powerful competitive advantage to drive superior AI performance.

In December, we proudly announced our patent-pending AI-powered knowledge mesh system, which transforms unstructured data such as phone calls and e-mails into a connected searchable network. This innovation unlocks deep insights and enables smarter workforce management, positioning us at the forefront of AI-driven solutions. Paychex has a strong track record of delivering pragmatic AI solutions focused on measurable outcomes such as time saved and friction removed from everyday processes. We are accelerating AI innovations that enhance efficiency and improve client outcomes while fueling our growth. We recently launched our GenAI-powered employment law and compliance platform that helps clients and Paychex HR experts efficiently navigate thousands of constantly changing federal, state and local laws, generating compliant documents and it stays current with the regulations.

Since its deployment, we have seen strong adoption and frequent utilization by our HR experts. This advancement is key to our strategy to have the leading expert-embedded technology platforms for businesses of all sizes, and we will be integrating across our 3 platforms: SurePayroll, Paychex Flex and Paycor. We are proud that both Paychex Flex and Paycor platforms were recognized as leaders in NelsonHall's 2025 HCM Technology and GenAI evaluation.

This distinction highlights our strength in delivering intelligent HCM solutions that enhance client outcomes, streamline HR processes and supports our partners. We are excited to share that our first agentic AI pilots were a success this quarter. They autonomously handled thousands of payroll calls and e-mails with nearly 100% accuracy, decreasing payroll processing time and enabling our service teams to focus on higher-value strategic advisory support.

We are continuing to invest in these capabilities and are actively exploring additional applications across the business. In sales, we are leveraging a new GenAI platform to drive revenue growth and improve efficiency by equipping our sales teams with instant answers, tailored scripts, objection handling and prospecting insights. These AI-driven advancements reinforce our commitment to being the digitally driven HR leader by reinventing the HCM experience as AI first. By leveraging our unique blend of innovative HCM technology, our unrivaled data and the deep HR expertise, we believe Paychex is well positioned to capitalize on the evolving AI landscape to drive growth, expand margins and strengthen our leadership in HCM.

I will now turn the call over to Bob to discuss our financial performance and outlook.

Robert Schrader
Senior VP & CFO

Thank you, John. I'll begin with an overview of our second quarter financial results, followed by an update on our fiscal 2026 outlook. Total revenue increased 18% over the prior year to $1.6 billion. Management Solutions revenue grew 21% to $1.2 billion, with Paycor contributing approximately 17 percentage points to the growth. Growth was primarily driven by product penetration and price realization but was moderated primarily by softer-than-expected revenue per client.

PEO and Insurance Solutions revenue increased 6% to $337 million, driven primarily by continued solid growth in the number of average PEO worksite employees as well as an increase in PEO insurance revenues. Our PEO continues to perform well, but our insurance agency remained a headwind in the quarter due to continued weakness in workers' compensation rates and lower health and benefit volumes. Interest on funds held for clients increased 51% to $54 million, reflecting the addition of Paycor balances and higher realized gains due to some strategic repositioning in our long-term investment portfolio.

Total expenses increased 27% to $986 million, primarily driven by the Paycor acquisition. Excluding Paycor, we estimate expenses grew low single digits. Operating income margins were 36.7% and adjusted operating income margins increased by approximately 80 basis points year-over-year to 41.7% in the quarter, driven by increased productivity and continued cost discipline. Diluted earnings per share decreased 4% to $1.10 per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share increased 11% to $1.26 per share.

Our financial position remains strong with cash, restricted cash and total corporate investments of $1.6 billion and total borrowings of approximately $5 billion as of the end of the quarter. Operating cash flows for the quarter were $445 million, largely driven by net income. And during the quarter, we returned $514 million to shareholders in the form of cash dividends and share buybacks. And our 12-month rolling return on equity remains robust at 40%.

I'll now turn to our guidance for fiscal '26. This outlook reflects the current macro environment which has some uncertainty. We are reaffirming our fiscal '26 outlook with the exception of raising our earnings expectations. However, given some of the trends that we've discussed earlier, we would now expect to come in towards the low end of the ranges for Management Solutions, PEO and Insurance and total revenue. Interest on funds held for clients is now expected to be at the high end of the range of the $190 million to $200 million range that we previously provided. And we are also raising our earnings expectations with adjusted diluted earnings per share now expected to grow between 10% and 11%, and that is up from the 9% to 11% we shared last quarter. And our effective income tax rate for the year is expected to be approximately 24%. All other guidance metrics remain unchanged.

Let me turn to the third quarter just to provide you some color with where we would expect to come out in the third quarter. We anticipate total revenue growth of approximately 18% with an adjusted operating margin between 47% and 48%. And just as a reminder, Q3 is one of our larger quarters we have both from a revenue and operating margin standpoint driven by the higher-margin year-end fees that get recognized during the quarter.

I'll now turn the call back over to John.

John Gibson
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Bob. We will now open the call for your questions.

