PACCAR Inc (PCAR) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 12:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Ken Hastings - Senior Director of Investor Relations
R. Feight - CEO & Director
Kevin Baney - President
Brice Poplawski - Senior VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

David Raso - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Jerry Revich - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Robert Wertheimer - Melius Research LLC
Steven Fisher - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Angel Castillo Malpica - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Scott Group - Wolfe Research, LLC
Charles Albert Dillard - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Jamie Cook - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Stephen Volkmann - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Kyle Menges - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Tami Zakaria - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Jeffrey Kauffman - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
Michael Feniger - BofA Securities, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, and welcome to PACCAR's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded. I would now like to introduce Mr. Ken Hastings, PACCAR's Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Hastings, please go ahead.

Ken Hastings
Senior Director of Investor Relations

Good morning, and welcome, everyone. My name is Ken Hastings, PACCAR's Director of Investor Relations. And joining me this morning are Preston Feight, Chief Executive Officer; Kevin Baney, President; and Brice Poplawski, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

As with prior conference calls, we ask that any members of the media on the line participate in a listen-only mode. Certain information presented today will be forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties that may affect expected results. For additional information, please see our SEC filings in the Investor Relations page of paccar.com.

I would now like to introduce Preston Feight.

R. Feight
CEO & Director

Good morning. Kevin Baney, Brice Poplawski, Ken Hastings, and I will update you on our very good fourth quarter and full year 2025 results as well as other business highlights. PACCAR's fourth quarter revenues were $6.8 billion and net income was $557 million. In 2025, PACCAR achieved annual revenues of $28.4 billion and adjusted net income of $2.64 billion, which is the fourth highest profit year in company history and the 87th consecutive year of profits.

Adjusted after-tax return on revenue was 9.3%. I'm proud of PACCAR's outstanding employees, who delivered these results by providing our customers with the highest quality trucks and transportation solutions in the industry. PACCAR Parts and PACCAR Financial Services each achieved quarterly and annual revenue records. PACCAR Parts and Financial Services represent an increasing percentage of the overall business, and contribute to PACCAR's structurally stronger performance.

2025 was a dynamic year in the North American truck industry with soft freight markets, tariffs and emissions policy uncertainties. In this environment, Kenworth and Peterbilt made strong contribution to PACCAR's results.

Importantly, we ended last year with tariff and emissions clarity. The Section 232 truck tariff policy that became effective on November 1 provides advantages to PACCAR, who produces trucks in the United States, Canada and Mexico for each local market. I'm proud of PACCAR's excellent team, who have created this cost-effective, flexible and robust manufacturing strategy.

In late 2025, it was confirmed that the 35-milligram EPA27 NOx limit will go into effect in January of next year. This brings clarity to the market and helps customers make their buying decisions. PACCAR is wonderfully positioned for these changes with the newest lineup of trucks and engines that are the most efficient and highest quality in the industry.

Last year, U.S. and Canadian Class 8 truck retail sales were 233,000 units and Kenworth and Peterbilt delivered a market share of 30%. The U.S. economy is projected to expand this year, the less-than-truckload and vocational truck sector, where Peterbilt and Kenworth are the market leaders, are steady.

The Truckload segment is beginning to accelerate with industry customer demand and spot rates picking up in December. The 2026 U.S. and Canadian Class 8 truck market is forecast to be in a range of 230,000 to 270,000 vehicles as economic growth, regulatory and tariff clarity and improving freight conditions are poised to improve customer demand. In Europe, DAF trucks have a competitive advantage in the market, with their innovative aerodynamic design that features the largest and most luxurious cab interior and the best powertrain choices. In recognition of this, the DAF team earned the prestigious International Truck of the Year Award for the DAF XF and XD electric trucks. It's noteworthy that this is the third time in 5 years that DAF has won this award.

In 2025, the European above 16-tonne truck market was 298,000 units. This year, the European economy is forecast to grow modestly, and we expect the above 16-tonne truck market to be in the range of 280,000 to 320,000 registrations. In addition to the excellent businesses in Europe and Brazil, DAF is also expanding in the Andean region of South America.

Last year, the South American above 16-tonne market was 115,000 vehicles and is expected to be in the range of 100,000 to 110,000 trucks this year.

Other 2025 business highlights included PACCAR earning the elite A rating from Climate Disclosure Project for its environmental performance, DAF being honored as the Fleet Truck of the Year in the U.K., DAF, Kenworth and Peterbilt introducing the next generation of battery electric trucks, PACCAR completing a new engine remanufacturing facility in Mississippi, and Kenworth completing a new chassis paint facility in Ohio.

The PACCAR delivered 32,900 trucks in the fourth quarter and deliveries are forecast to be at a comparable level in the first quarter of 2026. Fourth quarter Truck, Parts and Other gross margins were 12%, and we estimate that first quarter gross margins will increase to 12.5% to 13%. We look forward to 2026 being a year of accelerated growth for our customers, dealers and PACCAR. Kevin Baney will now provide an update on PACCAR Parts, financial services as well as other business highlights. Kevin?

Kevin Baney
President

Thank you, Preston. In 2025, PACCAR declared dividends of $2.72 per share, including a year-end dividend of $1.40 per share. This resulted in a dividend yield of nearly 3%. PACCAR has paid a dividend for a significant 84 consecutive years.

Last year, PACCAR Parts annual revenues increased by 3% to a record $6.9 billion and pretax profits were a strong $1.67 billion. Fourth quarter revenues increased 4% to a record $1.7 billion with pretax profits of $415 million. PACCAR Parts performance reflects the benefits of investments in connectivity and Agentic AI that increase vehicle uptime and enhance the success of our customers.

PACCAR Parts is continuing to expand, and now has 21 distribution centers worldwide, including a new distribution center in Calgary. This new PDC enhances parts availability, and delivery times to Canadian dealers and customers.

Parts aftermarket. Parts business provides strong profitability through all phases of the business cycle. We estimate parts sales to grow by 4% to 8% this year, with growth accelerating as the year progresses. Last year, PACCAR Financial Services achieved record annual revenues of $2.2 billion and annual pretax income grew 11% to $485 million.

Fourth quarter revenues were a record $569 million and quarterly pretax income grew 10% to $115 million. PACCAR Financial provides the highest quality service in the market and makes it easy for customers to do business with PACCAR through the use of technology in the credit application and loan servicing process.

PACCAR Financial increased market share to 27%, a growth of 2 percentage points when compared to 2024. Capital project investments last year were $728 million, while research and development investments were $446 million. This year, we are planning capital investments in the range of $725 million to $775 million and R&D expenses in the range of $450 million to $500 million.

This year's investments on key technology and innovation projects include the creation of next-generation clean diesel, hybrid and alternative powertrains, battery cells, integrated connected vehicle services, flexible manufacturing capabilities, PACCAR's autonomous vehicle platform and advanced driver assist systems. PACCAR's independent Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF dealers consistently invest in their businesses, enhancing our industry-leading distribution network, and they make a significant contribution to PACCAR's long-term success.

PACCAR is looking forward to a great year in 2026. Thank you. We'd be pleased to answer your questions.

