Park Aerospace Corp. (PKE) Q3 2026 Earnings Call January 13, 2026 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Brian Shore - Chairman & CEO
Mark A. Esquivel - President & COO

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Shamali, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Park Aerospace Corp. Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Release Conference Call and Investor Presentation. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

At this time, I will turn today's call over to Mr. Brian Shore, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Shore, you may begin your conference.

Brian Shore
Chairman & CEO

Thank you, operator. Welcome, everybody. Happy New Year. This is Brian and welcome to the Park Aerospace Corp. Fiscal Year 2026 Third Quarter Investor Conference Call. I have with me, as usual, Mark Esquivel, our President and CEO; Correction, COO. I gave you a promotion there, Mark, sorry. And just so a little housekeeping stuff. We announced -- released our third quarter earnings release or published our third quarter earnings release right after the close. You want to get a hold of that because in the release, there is a link information to access the presentation we're about to go through. Presentation is also posted on our website. So we have a lot to cover want to get started. We have our dilemma. We have a lot of new investors, a lot of veteran investors.

So how much do we cover the background stuff is always a little bit of an issue. We'll do the best we can. Also, I just want to mention that we did file an S-3 registration statement with the SEC after the close as well. So we're going to get started with the presentation. We have a lot to cover. Obviously, at the end of our presentation, we'll be happy to take any questions you might have. So let's plow ahead. Slide 2, forward-looking disclaimer. If you have any questions about this language, please let us know. Let's go on to Slide 3, table of contents. Fiscal year '26 Q3 investor presentation. We're about to go through that. And then the supplementary financial information in Appendix 1. We're not going to review that or cover it, but if you have any questions about it, please let us know.

As has become our practice in recent quarters, we're featuring the James Webb Space Telescope. Runaway super massive black hole, 10 million times the massive sun that sounds pretty big to me, being boosted from its Galaxy at 100 -- sorry, 1,000 kilometers per second, which is about 2 million miles an hour. Thank you, James Webb Space Telescope. The James Webb was produced with 18 PR proprietary Sigma struts. James Webb is now orbiting, I think it's called the Greams orbit about 1 million miles from Earth. Okay. Let's go on to Slide 4. our quarterly results. Let's just focus on Q3, where we just announced sales, $17.333 million; gross profit, $5,903,000; gross margin, 34.1%. Adjusted EBITDA, $4,228,000; adjusted EBITDA margin, 24.4%. We're not going to go over the history, but we provide that to you for perspective the prior quarters.

I mean, what do we say about Q3, about our Q3, the quarter we just announced during our October 9, 2025, Q2 investor call. Sales estimate was $16.5 million to $17.5 million, so we came in within that range. Adjusted EBITDA estimate was $3.7 million to $4.1 million. So we came in a little bit above that range. Just want to remind you that when we provide you with these estimates. We don't do what's called guidance that I guess everybody else does, almost everybody else does. When we tell you, we give you an estimate, we are telling you what Mark and I are telling you what we think will happen. We don't provide any fudge room so we can -- we reduced our -- what we think by 10%, so we can come in and beat the number and be heroes. We don't get involved in that kind of stuff. So I just want to always remind you when we talk about our estimates, what they mean, what they don't mean.

Okay. Let's go on to Slide 5. Good quarterly results continuing this, the Q3 considerations. All right. We always have to talk about the ArianeGroup and business partner agreement because it has an impact upon our quarters. I guess a little tedious, but I think we need to explain it. We entered into a business partner agreement with Ariane Group. They're a wonderful French company. We've known them for about 20 years. They're, I think, a JV between Safran and Airbus, a large company. That was in January of 2022, under which Ariane appointed Park as its exclusive North American distributor for their Raycarb C2®B fabric used to produce ablative composite materials for advanced missile programs. So this is -- a lot of people consider to be the Cadillac of this category of fabric that's used for [indiscernible] sometimes for missile programs.

So this is why we have to talk about it because let's just go into. We had 0 sales of the fabric [indiscernible] OEMs buy the fabric or stockpile the fabric as they're trying to protect their very critical missile programs, but they have to buy from us since we're the exclusive distributor in North America. The OEMs -- we buy the fabric from Ariane and our partner. And then we resell it or sell it rather to the OEMs for a small markup, right? And we don't even deliver it to the OEMs. We store the product, the fabric in our factory as a favor to them, I guess. Because ultimately, they don't need it. They're going to give us the releases at some point to go ahead and take that fabric and produce the pre material with it. So small markup, I probably shouldn't put this spin in here because it's not going to explain it. Even small as a presented considering tariffs.

This is because we pass through all the tariffs and they are significant, but you pass through Tesla on a dollar-for-dollar basis, they go through our sales line, but we don't provide a markup on the tariffs that would be kind of ridiculous. So that actually makes the markup even -- percentage even lower, if you follow I'm saying. We sold -- so we had 0 sales of fabric in Q3, and we had a little bit more than $1 million of sales of the materials manufactured with C2B product in Q3. So the -- when we produce the prepreg, that actually results in very good margins. So when we have significant sales of material, not too significant fabric, that's actually a plus for our bottom line. But the opposite often happens, and we'll talk about that when we talk about our Q4 forecast.

We have a lot of sales of fabric, not as much in materials that will drive down our margins. It's all good. It's all wonderful. because ultimately, everything that we -- all the fabric that we sell to the OEMs and they stockpile, we will end up producing. That's the reason we keep it in our factory. But the timing kind of to source our quarter sometimes, that's what we have to talk about, unfortunately. Let's go on to Slide 6. Total missed shipments in Q3, approximately 740,000. That number is up quite a bit. It was caused principally by international freight supply chain and customer spec and engineering issues. So what was going on here? Industry challenges are reemerging as industry recovers and program ramps accelerate. This is actually a good thing, good news. After the pandemic or when the pandemic started, it was a mess because the supply chain was so screwed up. And after a couple of years, we kind of got back to something that would be more acceptable, which is okay.

But now that the industry is recovering and the programs are ramping quickly. Now the supply chain, the industry is actually getting a little bit behind the power curve again. That's what's going on there. So actually, it's good news. The impact of tariffs and tariff-related costs and charges, maybe Mark can help us with this. Go ahead, Mark.

Mark A. Esquivel
President & COO

Yes. This is a very eventful update again, but -- which is, I think, a good thing. We have minimal impact on tariffs in our Q3 just as we've had previously. I think we talked about it, we price our materials on a short-term basis, most of our business. So we're able to pass them on if we do get them. The second bullet, possible future of impacts. Again, this has been quiet again for us the last few months or it seems to stabilize as far as what's coming our way. That doesn't mean there could be changes to that. But as far as the near term, I probably think the bullet would be pretty similar to the first one going forward in the next few quarters. But you just never know, but there's minimal impact for part at this point.

Brian Shore
Chairman & CEO

Okay. Thanks, Mark. Let's go on to Slide 7. We keep moving here. This is a slide that our veteran investors are familiar with every quarter, we share with you our top 5 customers, and we do a little picture of that's associated with each of these companies, the top 5 companies alphabetically. The 737 MAX, we've said in the past, we don't have much content on that. That's actually Nordam. That's a weather master radome that Nordam produces for the 737 product line. So we also want to talk about here. I guess maybe the Valkyrie. Yes. So we've talked about the Valkyrie quite a bit over the last few years. This is the Kratos program that we're on. But the recent news is the Marine Corps just selected a Valkyrie for its collaborative combat aircraft program, loyal [indiscernible] sometimes it's called. So that's very good news for Kratos and also for Park.

The PAC-3 that is an AAA item and the Airbus220, that's obviously Middle River, Sikorsky, Sikorsky and Nord, we already talked about which program is associated with Nordam. Let's go on to Slide 8, our pie charts here. So the comment is always that if you look at fiscal '21, which is really the pandemic year, the pie chart is quite different. The other year is kind of very similar year-over-year. People ask if the military piece of the pie chart will grow, and it might, but commercial is growing, too, we're not sure. My expectation would be that business aircraft as a percentage would maybe shrink over time. So let's go to Slide 9, Park [indiscernible niche military aerospace programs. This is a slide that we include every quarter as well. And these are not necessarily the biggest military programs we're on.

These are just things I want to share with you. As we mentioned in the last couple of quarters, we feel less comfortable giving many specifics about these programs, but these are all programs that Park is associated with. Let's see. The only thing that I would mention in terms of recent news is the Standard Missile SM-6 program. The Navy just awarded Raytheon contract to boost the SM-6 production. This is all public, so you can look at it yourself. I don't think we need to comment on any other programs here. Let's go on to -- sorry, Slide 10, Slide 10. This is another slide that we've included for probably, I don't know, a dozen presentations. So a lot of you are very familiar with it, no real change to it. GE Aerospace jet engine programs, major program opportunity for Park. Firm pricing LTA from '19 to '29 with Middle River Aerostructure Systems, MRAS, which is currently a sub of ST Engineering Aerospace, a Singapore aerospace company. But when we got all these programs, they were a sub of GE Aviation now GE Aerospace.

That's why these programs are all related to GE engines or CFM engines. We built a redundant factory for them in exchange for agreeing to give us the LTA through '29. What programs are we talking about? The first -- if you look at the bottom left side of the page, the first 5 are all A320neo aircraft family programs. They're all the same engine, LEAP-1A engine. which is a CFM engine. The 747-8, that airplane is no longer being produced, but there's still spares that were involved with COMAC 919. COMAC is a Chinese aircraft company with LEAP-1C engines. The 919 is COMAC's offering to compete a single aisle to compete with the 737 and the A320. On the right-hand side of the page, 909, that's also a COMAC aircraft, and that's a regional jet. And that also is a GE engine, of course, the Bombardier Global 7500 Passport 20 engine.

The picture here is the 747-8, as you can see, engine nacelles. We like this picture because it just gives you a perspective on the size of these nacelles and everything you see there is made with Park material. And a lot of what you don't see inside is also made with Park material as well on that 747 program. Let's go on to Slide 11. So more on GE Aerospace. We're continuing. Let's skip the first item, second item, the case containment wrap. This is for the 777X, GE9X engines for 777X. That's produced with our AFP material and other composite materials. And let's go into the third item, Amyris Park LTA, which you already mentioned, was amended to include 3 proprietary Park film adhesive formulation product forms. And the last item, Life of program agreement which was requested by MRAS and STE.

Remember, ST is the owner of MRAS now. And we've said agreement is under negotiation for a few quarters now. But this time, it's on us because the MRAS team wanted to get together with us in December, and we said, look, we're really going to focus on this expansion. And this expansion is for their benefit. So we say, can we delay the next meeting on the life of program a couple of months and they said, fine. So that one is on us. We can't blame anybody except us the fact that this is still an open item. As we said previously, we would love to have the life of program, but we're okay either way. Let's go on to Slide 12, continuing with the update on -- this is an update on GE Aerospace engine programs. So let's start with the A320neo aircraft family. That's the big dog of all the GE Aerospace programs that we're on. As of November 25, Airbus has already delivered 4,275 A320neo aircraft and Airbus has a huge backlog of these aircraft, 7,900 as of, I guess, September.

That's a total of over -- when you look at how much having to be delivered and what's in the backlog, a total of over 12,000 airplanes. That's huge. We look at the delivery history here at the bottom the bottom half of the slide. We won't go through the numbers. But you could kind of see what happened is that they were ramping up as the program was growing and then hit the pandemic and you kind of hit a brick wall and the ramp-up was slowed down a little bit. I think they're ramping up much more aggressively now. In December of '25, they delivered 97 airplanes, which is a lot, but they plan to deliver more. You're probably right about this, but the A320neo has issues with fuselage panels and also software that was caused by solar activities, which reduced the deliveries. Those issues have been resolved, but nevertheless, they probably held back the deliveries in '25.

Let's go on to Slide 13. This is the key thing. Airbus is targeting a delivery rate of 75. Remember, we're at 50, 51, 75 per month in 2027. So that's obviously doing the math, a 50% increase over we are now, which is a lot, considering it's a very large program, it's 50% of a lot. On October 7, '25, the A320 aircraft family became the world's most delivered commercial jet. That was surpassing the 737 and A320 aircraft family continues to rack up in orders. The game-changing A321XLR, we've spoken about this a lot in the last few quarters. Maybe I won't go through each item, but if you have questions about it, please let us know. This is a pretty exciting game-changing aircraft for Airbus. So this is part of the A320neo family. I just want you to understand that. What the approved engines for the A320neo aircraft family are 2 of them.

One is the CFM LEAP-1A engine. That's a program we're on. The other one is a Pratt & Whitney GTF engine, PW1100G engine. We're not involved in the Pratt program, only the program on Slide 14, we supply into the -- we just talked about the first item, the first bullet item, okay? Second bullet item. So basically, if you look at the market share of firm engine orders between the LEAP 1A and the Pratt engine. And this is for the A320 program, of course, the LEAP -- CFM LEAP engine has a 64.5% market share, much more than half. So -- and it has been that way for a while. The LEAP market share is much more than the Pratt market share, which is good for Park because we're on the LEAP program and not the Pratt program. At that delivery rate of 75 airplanes per month, that 64.5% market share translates into a lot of engines per 1,161.

Just to help you understand, this -- this 64.5% is based upon all orders, all backlog for both engines. We're talking about thousands and thousands and thousands of airplanes. So it's not a number that's easily distorted by kind of a small perspective, a short time frame perspective. Let's keep going. The Pratt engine, unfortunately, continues to struggle with serious reliability issues. I just read an article this morning that these reliability issues are expected to continue. Now for the LEAP engine, reliability has been a selling point. Reliability is a very, very key thing for an airline -- reliability relates to how much downtime an airplane has related to maintenance. So if these airplanes are down for maintenance or inspections for these engines, that's a real bad problem because when the airplanes are on the ground, they're not making money. And airlines, their margins aren't that great.

They cannot afford to have excess downtime. And that's why the reliability issue is a real serious problem. I don't know what's going to happen, but one might even speculate that because reliability continues to be a problem with Pratt and the CFM LEAP is doing well with reliability, that could drive the market share potentially even more to the LEAP side of the ledger. CFM has significantly ramped up production deliveries of LEAP engines, including LEAP-1A. That's really significant because we talked about supply chain restrictions holding back the market, holding back deliveries. There are a lot of different things, but what was often was mentioned most often were engines. So the fact that CFM is leaping up -- sorry, ramping up the LEAP engine is a good thing because that will help Airbus ramp up the A320neo program, which, of course, is what we want.

Slide 15. What are we doing here? As of September 30, '25, there were 7,900 firm LEAP-1A I'm talking about, these are a lot of engine orders, firm LEAP-1A engine orders. So we recently told that our customer was given an indication as to how many engine -- how many cells basically, that's what they produce the cells, they need to plan to produce for this program. And we can't disclose that number, but it is significantly more than 7,900, significantly more. The A320neo aircraft family program could end up being our largest program. We'll see. But over the long -- over the course of the program, it could be -- I don't know everybody has different opinion about this, but I'll give you my opinion, which is probably not worth much, but my opinion is that Airbus will be making these airplanes with these engines in 2040. We'll see if I'm wrong or right.

COMAC 919 is a Chinese aircraft, single aisle, we talked about that. It also has a LEAP engine, LEAP-1C. And this is the single aisle to compete against the 737 and the A320 COMAC is expected to fall short of its 2025 delivery target. Not surprising, Chinese companies. So sometimes they have historically had some trouble kind of getting their programs up and going. Target shortfall, they say it's caused by supply chain, whatever international production issues, international trade production issues. So I don't know, let's just go on to the next slide. I don't think we need to be -- let's go to the next slide. We're still on the 919. COMAC is increasing manufacturing capacity to achieve production rates of 115 in '27, 2029. Now if you look at that [indiscernible] slide further down the presentation, we're assuming a top set of 150, but COMAC is building capacity for 200 per year.

COMAC reportedly has over 1,200 orders for the 919. Now let's look at the 909. This is a regional jet and again, produced by COMAC with a GE engine, a different type of GE engine, of course. So according to the state run Global Times, 175 909s have been delivered. The 909 operating routes have expanded to 12 Asian countries, which is good because originally, these airplanes are thought to be China-only airplanes. That's obviously not happening. I mean COMAC doesn't want to happen anyway. 909 aircraft now carried over 30 million passengers. That's a lot of passengers in these small airplanes. approximately -- there were approximately 385 open orders. So here's a good thing to talk about because this aircraft has been at rate for a couple of years. So it took -- going back a while to get to rate, but they're at rate. They got there. That's the key thing.

So with the 919, maybe it will take a little bit longer for to get to rate, but my opinion anyway is they'll get to rate, and that will be very good for Park. These are starting from 0. So let's go to Slide 17. The Bombardier Global 8000 variant, the 7500 variant, it was just certified and first delivery last month, the fastest civilian aircraft since the Concord, 8,000 local mile range. The 777X with GE9X engines. The 777X TX program has amassed a lot of hours, a lot of flights. Boeing reportly has over 600 orders for the aircraft. The certification test program is moving into Phase 3 of the TIA, which is important. I mean [indiscernible] know what that means. I'm not expert anyway, but it's an important step along the way to getting the aircraft certified with the FAA. Slide 18, still on the 777X. Boeing now anticipates FAA certification entry into service and first delivery of 777X in '27.

This airplane is late, too. So we can't just say, well, the Chinese are sometimes late with their aircraft. The Boeing CEO has indicated that 777X aircraft and the engines are performing quite well, mentioned increased FAA scrutiny as a key factor in the certification delay. I think what's really getting at, I think what's nice about it is that the FAA is being a little stricter because of the issues with the MAX, the 737 MAX. Why don't we go on to Slide 19 -- here are some numbers, GE Aerospace programs. This is why we emphasize a lot because it's a big deal for Park, the GE Aerospace jet engine programs. We won't go into the sales history. You can see it here for your benefit. Q3 sales were $7.5 million. Our forecast for Q4, $7.75 to $8.25 million and for the year, $29 million to $29.5 million, just kind of adding down. And you could see that there's a recovery going on here in fiscal '20, almost $29 million that it's kind of fell off a cliff during the pandemic.

There's been a real struggle to get back to that level, and it's only now that we're at that level this fiscal year. And my feeling and sense is that this number is going to -- will move up quite aggressively over the next 2 or 3 years. Let's go on to Slide 20. Okay. This is now going to talking about Park, not just GE, this is all Park. Park's financial performance history and forecast estimates. So in the top part of the page, in yellow, fiscal year '26, Q3, we already gave you those numbers. And then we have estimates, forecast estimates we said these are not -- this is not guidance. This is what Mark and I think is going to happen for the rest of our building, sometimes are wrong, sometimes it's higher, sometimes it's lower, but we're telling you what we think is going to happen. Q4, $23.5 million to $24.5 million EBITDA of 4.75% of 5.25%.

Now a lot of smart people are thinking, what's going on here? Q3 sales were $17.3 million. Q4 sales, a lot more Q3 EBITDA of $4.2 million. So why isn't the forecast for Q4 EBITDA a lot more. We have a lot more sales. Well, you got to look at the footnote, 2 asterisks, forecasted to include approximately $7.2 million of C2B fabric sales. So that's a small market, very, very light margins. And that's what's going on there. That's what you need to understand. That's why with those kind of sales, we're not seeing much higher EBITDA numbers. And then while we're at it, let's look at the total forecast total for '26 is just adding down. take into account the Q4 forecast, $72.5 million to $73.5 million. And here's our EBITDA number. And again, you look at the footnote, the asterisks forecast to include approximately $9.8 million of C2 fabric sales, mostly in Q4 looks like, all right? Let's go on to Slide 21. So this is just some history with on the right-hand column, the '26 forecast estimate included, the estimate we just went over with you, so we won't go over that again.

I think what's interesting is to look at the top line of sales starting in '17, '18, '19, '20 went up $10 million approximately per year from '17 to '20, and then it fell off a cliff. There you have the pandemic and the supply chain issues and the industry chaos that resulted for a long time. And even last year in '25, we still had barely gotten back to that fiscal '20 number. Now we start to see in fiscal '26, we start to see some acceleration, getting out of that rut that the industry has been in for a long time, like 5 years. It's been a long 5 years, I would say. So it is what it is, but it's been a long 5 years. Let's look at the notes down here, supply chain limitations affecting the aerospace industry.

That's what we just discussed when we looked at the sales numbers, ramping up of cost for [indiscernible]. And again, reminding you that fiscal '25 sales include $7.5 million of C2B fabric and the '26 sales include $9.8 million of C2B fabric. Very important to understand those things, okay? And until now, I should just go back and say the OEMs have been stocked by lots and lots of C2B fabric much more than the -- what we're producing in terms of how that would translate into producing meaning producing prepreg with the C2B fabric. So let's go on to Slide 22, changing gears a little bit, our buyback authorization and activity, an update. Okay. So we announced in May '22, our Board authorized to purchase 1.5 million shares of our common stock. Under this authorization, Park has purchased total 718,000 shares of its common stock at an average price of $12.94.

So you have to say we're geniuses I mean considering the stock price is now. I mean, I don't know what you think, but we probably should be invited on CNBC or maybe to talk and be I guess, lecture at Ward and School of Economics. Let's keep going. We don't have to talk about -- well, except that we didn't buy any stock in Q2 or Q3, we haven't bought any stock so far in Q4. Let's go on to Slide 23, trying to rush here a little bit, sorry. Our balance sheet, cash and very incredible cash dividend history. We have 0 long-term debt, $63.6 million of cash at the end of Q3, 41 consecutive years of uninterrupted regular quarterly cash dividends. And we've now paid $608.6 million or $29.725 per share in cash dividends since the beginning of 2005. We're kind of speaking up on that $30 per share number. Park's founders always kind of like to include this photo with the cash dividend history because this is really at the beginning of Park when we really had almost nothing.

We started with basically nothing. Let's go on to Slide 24. A lot of money, a lot of dividends, I would say, for a company to start with basically nothing. Slide 24, financial outlook for GE Aerospace jet engine programs has been juggernaut. We have used that term for a while now. Timing, we're not sure that jug is coming as now with the capital NOW can't be stopped, better be ready. Let's go on to Slide 25. I'm rushing a little bit, but I just want to stop and say for a second. For some of you new shareholders, if you want a more detailed explanation of some of these things, please just call us. We're happy to go over these items in more detail. We're kind of rushing through them. We just want to get to some of the newer items toward the end of the presentation. Slide 25. So the -- we're talking about engines per year assumptions, and there is a footnote explaining how we came up with those assumptions.

Revenue per engine, that sorry, information is provided to us by our customer. the annual revenue per program, just multiplying across. And we end up with a total of $61.8 million at the outlook year. So a couple of notes here. Our revenue per engine unit estimates are updated. We've been given updated information from our customer. And here's something we haven't really touched on why the engine units per year assumptions may be conservative. Let's just try to explain this quickly. So A320neo, let's look at that one. We have 1,080 engines we're talking about per year. That's based upon 75 airplanes per month, 2 engines per airplane, a 60% market share for LEAP, just do the math, that's 180, all right? So that's based on how many LEAP -- how many A320 airplanes will be built with LEAP engines.

Do you think that every engine in cell structure that's produced will end up on those engines? That would be a really ideal situation, but something called scrap and fall out and things get rejected sometimes. We're not taking that into account at all. We're not taking spares into account either. So that's why this assumption about engine units per year might be a little conservative. I just want to touch on that, okay? Slide 26, we don't have to go over this. These are all footnotes related to the -- how we computed the numbers and did the math on Slide 25. Let's keep going. Okay. Now we're to changing gears completely, Warren Peace Park's new juggernaut. Actually, that term, the new juggernaut came from one of our investors, we liked it, so we decided to stick with it. Some of this is in review from last quarter, some of it's a little new. Unprecedented demand for missile systems.

Missile system stockpiles have been seriously depleted by the wars in Europe and Mid East. There's an urgent need to replenish those depleted missile system stockpiles. According to Wall Street Journal reporting, the Pentagon is pushing defense OEMs to double or even quadruple missile system production on a breakneck schedule. That's a direct quote, obviously. The list of Pentagon targeted missile systems include the Patriot missile system, the LRASM and the SM-6 Patriot probably being a particular priority. The Park actively participates in all of those missile systems. Review of an update on the Patriot missile defense system. That's the big one for us. Also, we focus on a piece that's public. We don't -- we're not providing any confidential inside information. Everything we're providing you is based upon public information. There's just lots and lots of public information about the Patriot missile system. President Trump talks about it sometimes.

The large deployment of PAC-3 Patriot missile defense systems -- largest, sorry, in history occurred in response to Iran missile strikes on our [Udeid] base in Qatar. That was, I guess, a few months ago after we bomb Iran bonded our nuclear sites on Slide 38. So what happened here is we moved the Patriot missile systems to Qatar in anticipation of this attack from South Korea and Japan, but I don't know if South Korea and Japan is so happy about that. The Department of War wants to very significantly increase patriot missile stockpiles in Asia. So we just took a lot of them out of Asia. So obviously, we had a problem on our hands in terms of Patriot missile systems availability. Israel's and Ukraine supplies of Patriot missile systems have been seriously competed. As a result of those wars. Recent news from U.S. defense OEMs, including RTX Boeing and Lockheed L3 indicating significant ramp-up of Patriot missile system production.

It's apparent that U.S. plants do much more than just replenish the depleted stockpiles. On September 3, '25, Lockheeds Missile and Fire Control division received its biggest contract in history, $9.8 billion with a B award from the U.S. Army. That's the branch that use the Patriot systems for about 2,000 -- just a little less than 2,000 Patriot missiles. It's a lot. Slide 29. Here's some big stuff, Slide 29, a little new. On January 6, 2006, was that about a week? Yes, about a week ago. Lockheed announced it reached a 7-year agreement. This is all being driven by the Department of War. With the U.S. Department of War to increase its Patriot PAC-3 missile segment enhancement, MSC Interceptor.

These are basically Patriot missiles, production to a capacity from 600 to 2,000, 600 to 2,000. You can see that number. The last 2 years, this is even more interesting in a way. Lockheed recorded increased production of Patriot PAC-3 interceptors by 60%. So do the math, if it was increased by 60% to get to 600, that means it was 375, 2 years ago. So we're going from -- I'm just doing the math, 375 to 2,000. You get those numbers. It's kind of unheard of. unheard of. The new 7-year agreement framework is designed to encourage Lockheed and its suppliers to make the capital investments necessary.

This is a theme again for Department of War. They want the Defense Department to making capital investments rather than paying dividends and buybacks and stuff like that, necessary to boost production capacity to levels needed to support to dramatically increase PAC-3 missile program requirements. Do we need encouragement? No. We don't need any encouragement. We're already building our factory. We'll get to that in a minute, are planning to build a factory to support this program. Lockheed support [indiscernible] -- supply, sorry, missile systems to the U.S. and 60 other countries. So a lot of countries that want this system and aren't getting it right now. Breaking news, this is this morning. U.S. Department of War is investing $1 billion in L3Harris solid rocket business, that's Aerojet to boost critical solid rocket production for Patriot and other missile systems.

This is a separate -- a new separate publicly traded company will be created in connection with this investment. This is a big deal, and it's a big deal for Park as well. But you see what's going on here, this is the Department of War driving all this stuff. This new world order, as we say, later on in the presentation. Let's go to Slide 30. The story continues. So what do we have to do with the Patriot Missile system. Park supports the factory Patriot missile system with specialty ablative materials produced with Ariane Group. There is an Ariane Group name again, their proprietary C2B fabric. This one probably should be em bold, but we're trying to be modest about it. Park is sole source qualified for specialty ablative materials on the PAC-3 missile system program.

You just think about that and think about all we just talked about, what we discussed regarding this program. Park has recently asked to increase our expected output of specialty ablative materials for the program by significant orders of magnitude. So how are we going to do that? We'll fully support this request with the additional manufacturing capacity provided by Park's major facilities expansion discussed below. We didn't need any incentive or encouragement. We're already there. Okay. Let's keep going. Now I'm going to go back and talk about Ariane Group a little bit more, not from the perspective of how it affects our quarters from a kind of bigger picture perspective. We have agreements with Ariane Group a really wonderful French aerospace company, JV between Airbus and Safran relating to their proprietary C2B fabric used by Park to produce ablative composite materials for the Patriot missile system and other missile systems.

Then we entered into a business partner agreement, that's what they call it, because they refer to us as their partner, very nice with Ariane in January '22, under which Ariane appointed Park as its exclusive North American distributor of their C2B fabric. Slide 31. On March 27, 25, we entered into what they call a new agreement with Ariane under which Park agreed to advance EUR 4,587,000 to Ariane against future purchases by Park of C2B fabric. That was a 50-50 deal. Park -- this advances to be used by Ariane to increase its C2B manufacturing capacity in Europe. So they kicked in the same amount. We went 50-50 on this investment to increase the capacity in Europe, and we already paid our first installment of that amount, sorry. Ariane Group and Park are partnering on a study to investigate the economic and other considerations relating to potential establishment of a major C2B fabric manufacturing facility in the U.S.

Park committed to contribute again, it's a 50-50 deal, EUR 350,000 to the study. We expect that amount to be expensed in our Q4. Originally, we said Q3 is probably in Q4. But that's another 50-50 deal. This is something we're partnering on this study. The bottom, Park is engaged in ongoing discussions with Ariane Group relating to potentially significantly increasing C2B fabric manufacturing capacity in the U.S. to support critical Department of War Missile programs, including the Patriot Missile System program. It's very important that we highlight this because there's a significant need for much more C2B fabric capacity.

So it's very important that this additional capacity to be installed to support these programs as they ramp up aggressively. Let's go on Slide 32. So we've referenced the Patriot missile [indiscernible] already explained this a little bit because it's a very high profile, well known, numerous other -- but there are -- sorry, there are numerous other critical missile programs currently in production or in development, which Park is actively supporting. Unfortunately, many of these programs are too confidential or sensitive for us to identify at this time. But please understand that certain of these programs represent very significant revenue opportunities for Park over long periods of time.

So last thing on World Peace. How about the U.S. defense industry's Newell World order? We already talked about this a little bit. President Trump wants to increase the U.S. defense budget to $1.5 trillion with a T in order to build our dream military. So this is a two edged sword for the [indiscernible] industry. It's being -- what is it, somebody give it and take it away. Here's the take it away. But according to President Trump, the defense industry needs to get us back together. So buybacks, dividends, no, why don't you invest in defense programs, CEO, even CEO pay limits. So there's been a real issue with the aerospace industry generally, programs getting being not on time and not on budget. And I think that the Department of [war] doesn't really like that very much.

They're asking the defense industry to kind of get its act together. What do we think about the new world order? We think it's great. Park thinks it's great. We think it's wonderful. Slide 33. Okay. Let's talk about our new plant. Sorry, it's going on so long. I'm rushing as you probably can hear through this as quickly as I can. Park's major new composite materials manufacturing plant. So now we're going to give you a little bit more information about this new plant. We're planning to build a major new composite material manufacturing plant. The new plant is being designed to be fully functioning and integrated -- a fully functioning, sorry, and integrated composite material manufacturing plant. will include the following manufacturing line solution training, hot mill film, hot mill tape, confidential manufacturing lines and support equipment.

The new plant will also include full production, lab facilities, office space storage and freezer and ancillary equipment necessary to support all plant manufacturing activities and operations. So it's like a fully integrated plant with everything that's needed. The new plant that is being designed to produce parts to produce and support Park's complete composite materials product line, including film adhesives and lighting strike materials. Slide 34, but the plant is not being designed currently anyway to produce our composite parts, structures and assemblies, okay? Plant size, it's getting pretty big, 120,000 square feet. This could change, but that's our current guesstimate on the plant size. When the plant is complete and operational and get this new plant will approximately double Park's current composite materials manufacturing capacity. So that's -- you can see why the plant is that big.

When will the new plant be completed? Well, we have some internal discussion about that, maybe debate. But let's just say for now, the second half of calendar '27 and when we'll be operational, what do you mean by operational, not fully ramped up, that means we're producing and selling some product, some product that's been qualified for production and sale. Maybe second half of, let's say, calendar year '28 would be a target for when the plant will be operational. Estimated capital budget for new plant, approximately $50 million. What's the timing of the capital spend on the plant again, this is planning in flux. At this point, fiscal year '27, that's the coming fiscal year, probably 60% of that money. fiscal year '28, maybe 30% of the money, fiscal year '29, maybe 10% of the money. That's how the money will be going out the door.

How will we fund the capital spend for the new plant? Well, with our cash, with our cash flow and to some extent from the offering that we just announced if that offering is successful. But is the new plant project dependent on the public offering discussed below? Absolutely not. We're doing this. There's no question about it. Nothing has to be decided. It's going to be done. We're just finishing the planning. It's not dependent on anything. It's something we're committed to doing for very good reasons for Park and for our investors. Okay. Let's go on to Slide 35. Still on the new plant, where will the new plant be located? We have a finalist location in the Midwest, but we're still waiting for approvals from local community, economic development. These things for us go much more slowly than we like.

Why are we building this new plant? Well, that's obviously the $64,000 question or maybe the $50 million question. Our juggernauts plural, both juggernauts, we've talked about require it. Our long-term business and sales outlooks require it. Significant additional composite materials manufacturing capacity is required to support our juggernauts and long-term business and sales outlooks. And we're doing this to ensure we continue to have the manufacturing capacity needed for Park to be Park. So we're doing this to ensure Park is able to continue to be the company of yes, the can-do company, the yes, we can company. So we're not looking to become a mill. We're not going to abandon how we got here, why we have the great, in my opinion, success we have, why we have more opportunities than we could ever handle. So it would be really foolish for us to abandon how we got here and become a mill company where we just run a factory like a mill and then somebody want -- a customer wants something, okay, we could help you out maybe a year from next month.

I'm not exaggerating. That's really what happened in this industry. That's not for us. Let's go on to Slide 36. What were our calling cards, flexibility, responsiveness and urgency. So we're doing this to ensure Parker is able to continue to do those things which got us here. It would be a very unfortunate mistake for us to abandon the things which got us here, a very bad mistake. So our new plant needs to be designed with being parked in mind, meaning being flexible, being responsive, having urgency saying, yes, we can. You need something, we're going to move everything around. We just talking yesterday, maybe Friday about one of our large customers, they want to move so many things around. It was any other supplier, we would say, well, sorry. We don't ever say sorry. Sure, we'll move everything around a lot. It requires us to juggle a lot. It requires production to juggle a lot, but that's what we do for a living, okay? And that's why we have the success that we have in my opinion.

When our new manufacturing plant is complete and fully operational, what will Park's total composite materials manufacturing capacity be? Well, it's a question that isn't so easy to answer. It depends on how do you define manufacturing capacity. Park being park manufacturing capacity, that means run the business the way we want to run it. So we have that maximum flexibility, responsiveness and urgency. If we run a factory like a mill, I just plant it 6 days a week, 24 hours a day, we could do that, but then our flexibility is almost nil. But parking park manufacturing capacity, maybe about $220 million parking park manufacturing capacity, but pushing it to some extent, still being parked, but pushing to some extent, about $260 million.

These are preliminary estimate numbers. We've been asked by a number of investors, please give us some help here, please give us some perspective on the manufacturing capacity. The maximum sustainable manufacturing capacity, this is what we don't want, would be about $315 million or $20 million. That's not what we want, okay? So when you ask and we haven't asked what the manufacturing capacity is, we have to say, well, it depends on what you mean by that. Let's go on to Slide 37. And I just want to say these are numbers we're working on. We're doing a massive amount of work, Mark and the guys on the expansion plan. So a lot of work has been done, but we're not quite finished with everything. And even after we're finished, things can move. Mix can change and things like that, which will affect capacity and sales.

Slide 37, Park's long-term sales outlook for composite materials, including film adhesive materials and lightning strike protection materials. So we got to say again, what does this mean? It's -- our number is approximately $200 million, okay? But how is this outlook computed? It's really important to understand what this means because it's not a forecast, it's an outlook. And this is how this outlook was computed with line items that are known items -- these are known sales, known programs and known customers. There's no other category. There's all line items of known opportunities, known customers, known programs. That's how it's computed. That's what that outlook includes. What does it not include? So do you think that in the next 3 or 4 years, will there be no other opportunities like 6 months from now or a year from now or tomorrow, we'll get a call from an OEM about a program they want us to work on.

My guess is it probably be tomorrow because we're getting so many opportunities. We're not including any of that, which we don't know what comes. So it's important you understand it's not a forecast, it's just an outlook, how -- with the methodology that we use. what are the high and low risk of the outlook. So I think we feel pretty confident about the line items in the forecast. But it's possible that will -- either we're on those programs or we'll get in those programs. Those programs will be ours. But it's possible those programs won't pan out to the level that we're being told by our customers. Maybe they won't be as strong, maybe it will take a longer to ramp up. I don't know it's possible. So there's risk on the low side.

What about the high side? The high side is all those things we just talked about, things we don't know yet that are definitely going to come. They're not -- there's no way -- we haven't -- we haven't provided an other category in our forecast or outlook rather, the way we computed it. just things we know about. What's the target year for the outlook? Well, that's another controversial question internally. I think we're saying fiscal year '31, and I'll tell you, I would say, the end of fiscal year '31, it sounds like a long time from now, but it starts 4 years from now. That means for us to be able to be at that level, everything had to be ramped up. The plant would have to be fully built and the new plant and qualified. All the programs have to be qualified. And we have hired all the people, all the staffing, and we're fully ramped up.

So to me, to do that in 4 years, that's a little aggressive. That's why I think what we should think about to be a little more conservative is the end of fiscal '21, which is more like 5 years from now. It doesn't mean we want to be sales, but to be ramped up at that level, probably I would think to be more conservative. We might want to think 5 years from now rather than 4 years from now. Thoughts about our ROI for parts investment in the new plant, $50 million. We're not going to go through what the bottom line impact is now, but you think about it, we have this year, what is $72 million of sales -- we're talking about $200 million of sales, $50 million investment. You could probably do the math a little bit on your own. We have some real smart investors. We're not going to go through that number now, but we think that the ROA will be extremely attractive that we wouldn't -- if we doubt any investor would ever have a problem with it. Let's go on to Slide 38.

Park's newly announced public offering, just touch on this quickly. Today -- sorry, it's going on so long. Today, we filed a Form S-3 registration statement and prospectus supplement with the SEC for a $50 million at-the-market public offering of Park's common stock. What's the purpose of this offering and financing? Well, first of all, to replenish a portion of the $50 million that we plan to invest in our new composite plant, composite materials plant, that's part of it. But very importantly, to ensure that Park has the necessary funds to be in a position to take advantage of and exploit key opportunities currently being presented to Park and new key opportunities as they arise in the future. The availability of funds necessary to exploit key opportunities has been a key strategic advantage for Park. So you're probably thinking, well, can you give me an example? Yes, I can give you an example.

We talked about GE Aerospace, how many hundreds of millions of dollars of business was represented. Well, remember what happened, GE said to us, it was GE at the time, not CE, yes, we'll give you the LTA through 2029. But Park, we're concerned because you're sole source qualified these programs, we want you to build a redundant factory. And then if you commit to doing that, we'll give it the LTA. And we said, sure, we'll do that. We didn't say sure, but we got to go see if we get the money or go to banks and it would have been terrible because GE if you're smart, would think, well, I don't know if Park is going to get the money, let's go talk to somebody else. That never happened because we said right there on the spot, yes, we'll do it, and we had the money to do it. It was about $20 million at a time. I think we believe if we had to do that plant now, it'd probably be twice as much based on the inflation.

We are quite sure it is in Park's and our investors' very best interest for Park to be able to continue to exploit such opportunities as they arise in the future. Just a little interesting information. footnote, where our last public offering was. It was -- well, Martinez found a tombstone in our office. It was March 6, 1996. 30 years ago, it was a $100 million convertible note offering that was converted all the equity -- almost all equity, I think 96 of it was converted to equity. Underwriters were Needham, Robin Stevens and Lehman, [indiscernible] happened to the last 2. Anyway, just a little interesting history. Sorry to go on for so long, everybody. But operator, we'd be happy to take any questions at this time to the extent there are any.

