Richardson Electronics, Ltd. (RELL) Q2 2026 Earnings Call January 8, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Edward Richardson - Chairman, CEO & President
Robert Ben - Executive VP, CFO, Chief Accounting Officer & Corporate Secretary
Gregory Peloquin - Executive Vice President of Power & Microwave Technologies Group
Jens Ruppert - Executive VP & GM of Canvys
Wendy Diddell - Executive VP, COO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Robert Brooks - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division
Anja Soderstrom - Sidoti & Company, LLC
Porter Taylor - ARS Investment Partners, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Richardson Electronics Earnings Call for the Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2026. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's call is being recorded. I would now like to hand it over to your speaker, Ed Richardson, CEO. Please go ahead.

Edward Richardson
Chairman, CEO & President

Good morning, and thank you all for joining Richardson Electronics conference call for the second quarter of fiscal year 2026. We appreciate your continued support and interest in Richardson Electronics. Joining me today are Bob Ben, Chief Financial Officer; Wendy Diddell, Chief Operating Officer; Greg Peloquin, General Manager of our Power & Microwave Technologies and Green Energy Solutions Group and Jens Ruppert, General Manager of Canvys. As a reminder, this call is being recorded and will be available for playback.

I would also like to remind you that we're making forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Therefore, our actual results could be materially different. Please refer to our press release and SEC filings for an explanation of our risk factors.

I'm pleased to report that Richardson Electronics has achieved 6 consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth. underscoring the progress we're making in executing our multiyear strategy. This growth reflects our continued repositioning toward higher growth end markets, and the expanding contribution from our engineered solutions. Equally important, these results are driven by the strength of our people. While investors are familiar with our senior leadership team, we've been intentionally investing across the organization to build depth, diversity and technical expertise throughout our ranks. I believe we have assembled one of the strongest and most motivated teams in the company's history, positioning Richardson Electronics for long-term sustainable value creation.

Looking at our Q2 FY '26 results. Total sales were $52.3 million, up from $49.5 million in Q2 of last year driven by sales growth in our Green Energy and Canvys businesses. Operating income improved to $132,000 versus a loss of $667,000 last year. Within our GES business unit, we're very pleased with the year-over-year growth as well as sequential quarter-over-quarter growth. Both onshore wind and EV sales were up over the prior year in Green Energy segment, reflecting higher sales from existing customers as well as sales from new products and expanded customer base. Canvys revenue exceeded the prior year by 28% on improved demand from our medical OEMs.

It's important to note that the sales growth was partially offset by the inclusion of our health care business in both the current year and the prior quarters. As a reminder, we sold the majority of our health care business in Q3 of FY '25. So this will impact our year-over-year comparisons through the end of Q3 this year. We also remain focused on managing expenses and improving inventory turns. Our cash position remains strong at $33.1 million providing us with flexibility to support both our ongoing operations and strategic growth opportunities.

I'll now turn the call over to Bob Ben, our Chief Financial Officer; who will provide a detailed review of our second quarter results and capital positions. Following Bob's remarks, Greg and Jens will provide updates on our business units and then Wendy will follow up with the progress we are making executing again on our multiyear growth strategies.

Robert Ben
Executive VP, CFO, Chief Accounting Officer & Corporate Secretary

Thank you, Ed, and good morning. I will review our financial results for our second quarter and first 6 months of fiscal year 2026 followed by a review of our cash position. Consolidated net sales increased 5.7% to $52.3 million compared to net sales of $49.5 million in the prior year second quarter. When excluding health care, for which the majority of assets were sold in January 2025, net sales increased by 9.0%. Please note that health care results, including prior periods are consolidated into the PMT segment beginning in fiscal 2026. This was our sixth consecutive quarterly year-over-year increase in sales. Second quarter net sales growth was led by a 39.0% increase in GES sales, driven by an increase in power management products. Canvys sales increased 28.1% and which primarily reflected higher sales in North America. Sales for PMT were 4.0% below the second quarter of fiscal 2025. Excluding health care, PMT sales were approximately flat.

Consolidated gross margin for the second quarter was 30.8% of net sales compared to 31.0% during the second quarter of fiscal 2025. The slight decrease in consolidated gross margin was primarily due to lower margin in PMT and GES, partially offset by higher margin in Canvys. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales improved to 30.5% for the second quarter of fiscal 2026 compared to 32.3% in the second quarter of fiscal 2025. Operating income improved to $0.1 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2026 from an operating loss of $0.7 million in the prior year second quarter.

Net loss was $0.1 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2026 compared to $0.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2025. Net loss per common share diluted was $0.01 in the second quarter of fiscal 2026 compared to $0.05 in the second quarter of fiscal 2025. EBITDA for the second quarter of fiscal 2026 improved to $0.7 million versus breakeven in the prior year second quarter. Please note that EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure and a reconciliation of the non-GAAP item to the comparable GAAP measure is available in our second quarter fiscal year 2026 press release that was issued yesterday after the market closed.

Turning to a review of the results for the first 6 months of fiscal year 2026. Net sales were $106.9 million, an increase of $3.6 million from $103.2 million in the first 6 months of fiscal year 2025, which reflected higher sales across our business segments, except for PMT. When excluding health care, consolidated net sales increased by 7.8% and PMT net sales increased by 5.2%. Gross margin was 30.9% of net sales which was a slight increase from the first 6 months of fiscal 2025. As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses for the first 6 months of the fiscal year improved to 29.8% from 31.1% for the first 6 months of the prior fiscal year.

Operating income for the first 6 months of fiscal year 2026 was $1.1 million as compared to an operating loss of $0.4 million for the first 6 months of fiscal year 2025. The company reported net income of $1.8 million or $0.12 per diluted common share for the first 6 months of fiscal year 2026 versus a net loss of $0.2 million or $0.01 per diluted common share for the first 6 months of fiscal year 2025. EBITDA for the first 6 months of fiscal 2026 was $4.0 million versus $1.7 million in the prior year's first 6 months.

Turning to a review of our cash position. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2026 were $33.1 million compared to $35.7 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2026. Capital expenditures of $1.6 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2026 were primarily related to our manufacturing business, facilities improvements and IT systems versus $0.5 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2025. We paid $0.9 million in the second quarter for cash dividends. In addition, based on our current financial position, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per common share, which will be paid in the third quarter of fiscal 2026. As of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2026, the company had no outstanding debt on its revolving line of credit with PNC Bank. Now I will turn the call over to Greg, who will provide more details for our PMT and GES business groups.

Gregory Peloquin
Executive Vice President of Power & Microwave Technologies Group

Thank you, Bob, and good morning, everyone. GES and PMT are key components of our multiyear growth plan. Coming out of FY '25, we had strong backlog. We launched several new products, expanded our customer base and advanced multiple development programs from beta testing to preproduction. This momentum continued into Q1 and into Q2. Building on this progress in Q2 of fiscal year 2026, GES grew to $8.3 million, a 39% increase over prior year and 14% increase over this year's first quarter. As we continue to see the amazing adoption of our Pitch Energy Modules for various wind turbine platforms with owner operators and other related power management products throughout the world. PMT sales were $35.2 million in the quarter a 4% decrease over prior year. This reflects a slight slowdown in the electronic device MRO business, offset by growth in the RF and Wireless Components business unit.

Our GES strategy centered on power management applications. We've rapidly designed multiple products, secured patents and built a strong base of customers and partners. Our success is evident in our growing sales pipeline as we capitalize on numerous growth opportunities to support new power management requirements and significant energy transformation opportunities. Our Pitch Energy Modules and related wind energy products led GES quarter-over-quarter growth. We continue to gain market share by developing new products and solutions that are accepted by our customers, and the team is doing a great job expanding this program globally. We serve dozens of wind turbine owners operators including exclusive partnerships with the top 4 owner operators of GE wind turbines such as RWE, Invenergy, Enel and NextEra. We also saw growth from our new multi-brand PEM turbine platforms.

We continue to grow this program internationally, expanding into Europe and Asia with new products for other turbine platforms such as Suzlon, Senvion, Nordex and SSB. We have now received orders from customers in Brazil, Australia, India, France and Italy in addition to our strong rollout in North America. We are entering the back half of FY '26 with solid momentum. We recently added key technology partners such as KEBA, Goshen and Wulong, who play critical roles in both wind power management and energy storage systems. Key initiatives include faster design to production cycles supported by a new design center in Sweetwater, Texas. Sweetwater has one of the largest concentrations of wind turbine and power management engineers in North America. Expanding our design team to accelerate and enhance design cycles prior to transitioning work to our world-class manufacturing and test group in LaFox, Illinois. This is one of our most critical strategic priorities underway.

We expect to have the Sweetwater design center fully operational in Q3 of FY '26. We are also adding key people from the industry to help expedite growth. We are on schedule to complete our Illinois-based demo center in Q4 FY '26. This demo site will allow us to showcase our active BES solutions to potential customers. We are currently collaborating with numerous customers on BES systems that we can support with our current technology partners. In fact, we booked our first system at the end of December. Our GES products and technology partners support our niche product strategies as it appears federal subsidies will be harder to get under the current administration.

Looking at our new ESS project and strategies, we are focused on sales in key states, and we'll continue to offer large subsidies such as Illinois, Massachusetts and California. We are also expediting our efforts to expand global market penetration of our power management products for Green Energy applications focusing on Europe and Asia. Currently, about 70% of our GES sales are in North America.

Turning to Power & Microwave Technologies Group or PMT, which includes our Electron Device Group, EDG, and our legacy tube semiconductor wafer fab equipment business and the RF and Microwave Components Group, or PMG. In the quarter, we did see some sales growth, led by increased demand in our RF and Microwave Components business as we see growth in RF and wireless applications such as SATCOM and military applications, including radar and drone technology. While semi fab sales were flat in the quarter, we are encouraged by our customers' forecast indicating growth for the rest of the fiscal year.

Looking ahead, we are excited about the strategic initiatives across PMT and GES, including our ESS program, global expansion of our key products and new technology partnerships. While we are navigating a higher degree of uncertainty associated with the impact of tariffs and market conditions, we are pursuing opportunities that may come from these disruptions. We are investing in infrastructure, expanding our design and field engineering teams and enhancing our in-house design and manufacturing capabilities. To support growing demand and innovation, our engineering teams continue to identify new customers and opportunities. Our global capabilities and global go-to-market strategy set us apart from our competition in power management, RF and microwave and green energy markets. We have developed a business model that combines legacy products with new technology partners and solutions allowing our growth strategy to deliver engineered solutions to a global customer base. This model differentiates us from our competition.

We are working on these initiatives alongside marketing, our manufacturing design services to companies who need partners in the U.S. to manufacture, test and support products currently made in other countries. We acknowledge there are a lot of moving parts but we have successfully used our global resources, infrastructure and capabilities to mitigate the effect of these situations like this in the past. So in summary, we remain optimistic about our growing project-based business, even though it remains hard to forecast. We continue to increase our technology partners, design opportunities and engineering staff. We have a new technology partnerships that fill technology gaps. We have proven strategy of identifying opportunities in the multibillion-dollar markets we serve. As a result, we continue to feel FY '26 will be another growth year for both PMT and GES. And with that, I'll turn it over to Jens to discuss Canvys.

Jens Ruppert
Executive VP & GM of Canvys

Thanks, Greg, and good morning, everyone. Canvys engineers, manufacturers and sells custom displays to original equipment manufacturers across global industrial and medical markets. It is our mission to deliver high-quality display solutions tailored to our customers' needs. Canvys reported revenues of $8.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2026 an increase of 28.1% from $6.8 million in the same quarter of the previous year. Our gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 32.6% from 31.7% in the second quarter of fiscal '25, primarily due to product mix. The backlog at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2026 remained strong at $38.0 million, providing a robust foundation for future business.

During this most recent quarter, Canvys secured orders from both repeat and new medical OEM customers for a range of applications. Our primary focus remains on robotic-assisted surgery, navigation endoscopy and human machine interface HMI solutions for the control of medical devices. Furthermore, our solutions are widely utilized in various commercial and industrial applications. For instance, our products enhance passenger information systems in trains and buses and improve HMI technologies used in printing, vending, billing and packaging equipment. Our initiatives focus on increasing Canvys' visibility and market leadership by seeking new opportunities, building customer relationships and collaborating within the industry to drive growth.

Looking ahead, while the business is still project focused and can therefore vary quarter by quarter, we are cautiously optimistic about improving demand in our markets. Positive indicators such as increasing request for quotes and encouraging customer feedback suggest steady growth. Our dedicated sales team continues to explore new opportunities while are focused on implementing strategic plans to ensure sustainable growth and deliver long-term value for our shareholders. I will now turn the call over to Wendy.

Wendy Diddell
Executive VP, COO & Director

Thank you, Jens, and good morning, everyone. While the remainder of our health care business, including the manufacturer and repair of certain CT tubes is included in PMT, I want to continue providing key highlights as we go through this transition period over the remaining quarters of FY '26. As a reminder, we sell CT tubes exclusively to DirectMed as part of the January 2025 sale and distribution agreements. Over the last quarter, we continued to make excellent progress finishing production of our ALTA tubes. We should wrap this up by the end of third quarter of this fiscal year. We've also made good strides during the recent quarter repairing Siemens Straton Z tubes. We are preparing to launch the repaired Siemens MX series as early as the fourth quarter of this fiscal year. Given the health care transaction occurred in Q3 FY '25, Q2 and Q3 of FY '26 will continue to show unfavorable comparisons. However, the combination of completing the production of the ALTA tubes and expanding our Siemens program for DirectMed will result in an improvement to our bottom line beginning in FY '27.

Switching to an overview of our multiyear strategy. We continue to focus on accelerating growth and improving efficiency. In the second quarter, we had significant growth in our Green Energy business unit, reflecting our ongoing investment in this sector and the benefit of new products generating revenue. Today, we are shipping our Pitch Energy Modules for nearly all GE manufactured turbines to an expanded customer and geographic mix. There are several additional products in development and test that should start contributing to revenue growth in calendar year 2027. We also continue to make progress developing a world-class battery energy storage design center at our LaFox facility. As we've mentioned before, the demand for battery energy storage continues to accelerate and our turnkey solutions and technology partners position us to capitalize on that growth. In the quarter, we added several projects to our pipeline, including one that closed end of December.

Our made in America activities are also generating interest. We are utilizing existing customer and supplier relationships to promote our engineering and manufacturing capabilities here in the U.S. We've reached the quoting and prototype stage on several programs, primarily taking advantage of our PCB facility as well as our battery knowledge. This isn't a fast process but the upside of new programs will play a key role in fully utilizing our factory and resources. Finally, we are expecting stronger demand for our engineered solutions within the semiconductor wafer fab equipment market, well into calendar year 2026 and beyond. This growth is tied to the ongoing benefit of AI on equipment demand throughout the world. We are well positioned to benefit from growth in memory-related applications. This growth takes advantage of our existing resources and manufacturing facilities as well.

We remain focused on efficiency and cash generation. The period of elevated inventory investment relating to a single critical supplier is nearing completion as that supplier prepares to exit production of powergrid tubes. We expect final inventory receipts of approximately EUR 1.5 million in the first quarter of calendar year 2026, after which inventory levels should normalize and cash conversion improve. This inventory provides product coverage through 2030. We have identified alternative supply sources with sufficient time to ensure continuity, quality and fulfillment of customer demand.

Outside this area of growth, we continue to focus on controlling inventory and improving turns. We have also initiated a disciplined cost-controlled effort to explore the benefits of AI by creating an enterprise-wide AI steering committee. This effort is expected to create a road map focused on practical high ROI applications across our global operations. The goal is to drive efficiencies, improve decision-making and reduce manual workload while maintaining strong governance around security, data privacy and responsible AI use. Importantly, this initiative is designed to leverage our internal teams with clear milestones and tight scope controls, ensuring we capture meaningful benefits without significant incremental cost.

Longer term, we remain focused on driving growth through a combination of organic initiatives and a disciplined approach to acquisitions. We continue to evaluate opportunities thoughtfully with an emphasis on leveraging our existing capabilities and global infrastructure to support sustainable growth. We believe our current strategic initiatives position us well to drive revenue and profitability over time while we remain patient and selective as we consider potential longer-term acquisition opportunities. I'll now turn the call back over to Ed.

Edward Richardson
Chairman, CEO & President

Thanks, Wendy. In closing, our results this quarter demonstrate the strength of our strategy and the resilience of our business model. It also reflects the talent of this management team to adjust to constantly changing market conditions. By sharpening our focus on repeatable sales, driving strong cash flow and building on our scale across power management and alternative energy solutions, we're positioning the company for long-term success. At the same time, we remain disciplined in our commitment to improving profitability. These priorities give us the confidence in our ability to deliver sustainable value for our shareholders, customers and employees as we move forward. We'll now open the call for questions.

