Resources Connection, Inc. (RGP) Q2 2026 Earnings Call January 7, 2026 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Roger Carlile - President, CEO & Director
Bhadresh Patel - Chief Operating Officer
Jennifer Ryu - CFO & Executive VP

Conference Call Participants

Mark Marcon - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Kartik Mehta - Northcoast Research Partners, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Resources Connection, Inc. conference call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to remind everyone that management will be commenting on results for the second quarter ended November 29, 2025. They will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. An explanation and reconciliation of these measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release issued today.

Today's press release can be viewed in the Investor Relations section of RGP's website and filed today with the SEC. Also during this call, management may make forward-looking statements regarding plans, initiatives and strategies and the anticipated financial performance of the company. Such statements are predictions and actual events or results may differ materially. Please see the Risk Factors section in RGP's report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2025, for a discussion of risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the company's business, results of operations and financial condition to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made during this call.

I'll now turn the call over to RGP's CEO, Roger Carlile.

Roger Carlile
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, and welcome, everyone, to Resources Connection Q2 Earnings Call. Before we get into the quarterly earnings discussion, I want to thank our leadership and employees for welcoming me as the company's newly appointed CEO and for supporting a smooth transition. I also want to recognize our teams for maintaining a strong focus on our clients and our business during this time.

I mentioned both our clients and our business as focal points because we have employees who serve our clients' needs as well as employees who support the needs of our client service professionals and our business. Both employee groups are critical to our success. For those of you on today's call with whom I have not yet had an opportunity to speak, I look forward to doing so in the near future. I recognize that you have invested time understanding the company, its services and markets, and we appreciate your interest and effort.

Regarding our business, let me start by saying my enthusiasm for the company's future has grown since stepping into this role in November. The deeper I get into our business, the more impressed I am with the talent and capabilities here, but even more so with the commitment and enthusiasm I find when talking with our people. The quality of our people is reflected in the caliber of long-standing and newly activated clients who trust us to assist them with issues they view as important to their success.

I also want to say that while the market for our services has been more challenging and uncertain of late for a variety of reasons, I believe there is a sufficiently large market of client needs for which RGP is positioned to serve that will allow us to grow our business and financial results. However, doing so requires that we focus on what gives us a competitive right to win. That is providing relevant skills and solutions to our clients, which satisfy their needs at a price that brings them better overall value than other providers in the marketplace.

Our balance sheet and liquidity are strong, which is a testament to the resilience of our people and client relationships as well as the flexibility of our business model. However, our quarterly earnings results also reflect the continued lack of positive momentum for our consolidated revenue and adjusted EBITDA. These results underscore the need to take decisive actions to better align our cost structure with our current revenue levels, refocus our On-Demand offerings to address the evolving needs of our clients and scale our Consulting business to deliver high-value solutions to both existing and new clients.

These 3 points will form the basis of our strategy going forward. We have already made progress this quarter in reducing our cost structure to better align it with our current revenue levels, and we will continue this work in the third quarter. Improving our financial results in the On-Demand segment requires that we better understand our clients' current needs and adjust our ability to provide consultants that fit those needs.

Scaling our Consulting business requires identifying and hiring experienced consulting professionals to grow our ability to deliver value-added solutions to our clients. In the evolving consulting marketplace, we are finding that these types of professionals understand and are excited about the competitive nature of RGP's service offering model and value proposition it offers to clients. We believe this will make us a strong employer choice for such professionals going forward.

We also believe that RGP's ability to provide in-demand finance, risk, operational performance and technology solutions in 3 differing delivery models that is On-Demand, Consulting and Outsourced Services at a price point that is competitive to other traditional professional service firms gives us an opportunity to be uniquely successful in winning and serving clients' needs in the changing landscape for such services.

Lastly, no professional services firm can succeed in the present and future market without understanding how artificial intelligence, automation and other technologies are impacting their clients' businesses and how it impacts the professional services they seek and procure. This is no different for RGP, and we are actively working to understand how our clients' needs are impacted by their own AI and automation strategies.

Likewise, at RGP, we are continuing to implement additional AI and automation tools across our business processes to enhance the cost effectiveness of our client service delivery and internal business support functions. The work we have discussed so far today and the achievement of the expected results will certainly require time and disciplined execution. But the path forward is clear, and we are confident these actions will strengthen our business and create long-term value for our clients and shareholders.

With that, let me turn the call over to Bhadresh.

Bhadresh Patel
Chief Operating Officer

Thank you, Roger, and good afternoon, everyone. Before I begin, I want to welcome Roger as our new Chief Executive Officer. With Roger's leadership and fresh perspective, we are well positioned to strengthen execution, accelerate our strategic priorities and drive operational discipline across the organization, capitalizing on our inherent strength.

In the second quarter, we exceeded expectations in adjusted EBITDA despite revenue coming in below consensus, reflecting disciplined cost management and execution. In North America, expanded go-to-market initiatives across our On-Demand and Consulting segments, along with stronger cross-practice collaboration drove improved pipeline activity. Our Europe and Asia Pac segment delivered both year-over-year and sequential growth.

While Outsourced Services revenue remained essentially flat versus the prior year, we achieved meaningful improvement in gross margins. Overall, we remain focused on value-based pricing, targeted investments in leadership and service capabilities to drive momentum and cost discipline. Jenn will provide additional details on our performance and efficiency initiatives shortly. With that, let me turn to our performance by segment.

While Consulting segment revenue declined year-over-year, we delivered essentially flat sequential revenue with growth in select areas of CFO advisory and digital transformation. Bill rates continue to improve both sequentially and year-over-year with higher increases on new projects, reflecting the strong demand for our specialized services. We're also moving up the value chain with existing clients, for example, highlighted in Q2 by a large technology company selecting RGP as a global preferred consulting provider, expanding our role from On-Demand Talent into Advisory Services on mission-critical work streams.

As part of our strategy to grow the Consulting segment, we'll complete the integration of Reference Point by the end of the fiscal year. Combining Reference Point's capability with our consulting platform and leadership will enhance collaboration, streamline go-to-market execution and strengthen our focus on CFO advisory and digital transformation. This positions us to deepen relationships with existing On-Demand clients while also expanding our reach to new clients.

Finally, on Consulting, I want to thank Jon Bohlman as he begins a well-earned retirement. His vision and commitment to both client and employee value leave a lasting impact on RGP. I'm pleased to announce Scott Rottmann who joined RGP in August, will succeed Jon as President of Consulting Services, leading our CFO advisory and digital transformation offerings. Under Scott's leadership, we will strengthen our Integrated Consulting segment and deliver client value across strategy, transformation and On-Demand Talent.

Turning to On-Demand. Revenue declined year-over-year, but continues to show signs of sequential stabilization, supported by higher average bill rates compared to both the same period last year and the prior quarter. We remain focused on execution and disciplined pipeline management with emphasis on skills for ERP, finance transformation, data and supply chain. Across North America, several markets delivered sequential revenue growth, and in markets that are lagging, we're in the process of bringing in new leadership.

Turning to International. Our Europe and Asia Pac segment delivered both year-over-year and sequential revenue growth in the second quarter, supported by higher weekly revenue run rates and improved bill rates versus the prior year while maintaining stable gross margins. Performance was led by Europe, Japan, India and the Philippines, underscoring the strength of our client relationships and the effectiveness of our regional strategy.

We are committed to deepening multinational client relationships along with expanding our local client base, differentiating through a combination of local delivery and scalable global delivery centers and maintaining disciplined cost management. Lastly, in Outsourced Services, revenue remained steady year-over-year and gross margins improved versus the prior year. We continue to add new clients to our platform while also exhibiting strong retention and bottom line performance benefited from both operating leverage and efficiency measures.

To conclude, we remain focused on disciplined execution and delivering meaningful value to clients across all segments while continuing to see our strategy take shape and position RGP for sustained growth, profitability and value creation over time.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Jenn.

Jennifer Ryu
CFO & Executive VP

Thank you, Bhadresh. Good afternoon, and Happy New Year, everyone. Consolidated revenue for the second quarter was around the midpoint of our outlook range, $117.7 million. While gross margin of 37.1% was below the outlook, run rate SG&A expense of $39.7 million was significantly more favorable, enabling us to deliver adjusted EBITDA of $4 million in the second quarter or a 3.4% adjusted EBITDA margin.

We incurred $11.9 million of onetime expenses in the quarter in connection with the CEO transition and a reduction in force, contributing to a GAAP net loss of $12.7 million. I'll now provide some additional color on our revenue, gross margin and run rate SG&A expense. Consolidated revenue declined 18.4% on a same-day constant currency basis from the prior year quarter. While On-Demand and Consulting segment revenues remained soft, we are encouraged by the steady year-over-year growth in the Europe and Asia Pac and Outsourced Services segments.

We continue to focus on improving sales execution as well as aligning both our consulting solutions and On-Demand Talent pool to client demand to drive more pipeline growth and faster revenue conversion. Gross margin for the quarter was 37.1% compared to 38.5% in the prior year quarter. We drove a 97 basis point improvement in pay bill ratio. However, leverage on indirect cost of service was unfavorable, notably related to healthcare costs and paid time off, including higher holiday pay due to Thanksgiving coming in the second quarter of this year.

Enterprise-wide average bill rate was $121 constant currency versus $123 a year ago, driven mostly by revenue mix shift toward the Asia Pacific region. On an individual segment basis, we saw a 6.4% improvement in Consulting and a 2.4% improvement in both On-Demand [ in ] Europe and Asia Pac segments. As we continue to execute our pricing strategy and scale the Consulting business to deliver higher value, larger scale engagements, we expect to gain more upside in bill rates.

Now on to our SG&A and cost structure. While we have been on a continuous journey to reduce costs over the last few years, we are conducting an even deeper assessment across the entire organization to streamline organizational structure, simplify processes and adopt automation and AI to ensure our cost structure is adequately sized to the current revenue levels. The assessment is near completion, and we expect to implement the cost actions over a 12-month period. In October, we executed a reduction in force, the first in the series of actions to come in 2026.

The risk impacted 5% of our management and administrative headcount and is expected to yield annual savings of $6 million to $8 million. Back to our improved SG&A performance for the second quarter, enterprise run rate SG&A expense for the quarter was $39.7 million, a 15% improvement from $46.5 million a year ago. Management compensation expense improved significantly by $3 million as a result of the reduction in force we executed this quarter and at the end of fiscal '25. The remainder of the year-over-year improvement in SG&A is attributable to lower variable compensation and reduced SG&A spend, including travel, occupancy and professional services. Next, I'll provide some additional color on segment performance. All year-over-year percentage comparisons for revenue are adjusted for business days and currency impact.

And as a reminder, segment adjusted EBITDA excludes certain shared corporate costs. Revenue for our On-Demand segment was $43 million, a decline of 18.4% versus prior year quarter. Segment adjusted EBITDA was $4.1 million or a margin of 9.5% relative to $5.6 million or a 10.5% margin in Q2 of fiscal '25. Revenue for our Consulting segment was $42.6 million, a decline of 28.8% from the prior year quarter.

Segment adjusted EBITDA was $4.5 million or a 10.4% margin compared to $9.7 million or a 16% margin in Q2 of fiscal '25. Turning to our Europe and Asia Pac segment. Revenue was $20.1 million or 0.6% growth from the prior year quarter. Segment adjusted EBITDA was $1.5 million in both years, representing a 7.4% margin in Q2 fiscal '26 and a 7.5% margin in Q2 fiscal '25. Finally, our Outsourced Services segment revenue was $9.4 million, up 0.8% compared to the prior year quarter.

Segment adjusted EBITDA was $1.7 million or an 18.4% margin, up from $1.5 million or a 16.4% margin. Turning to liquidity. Our balance sheet remains strong with $89.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and 0 outstanding debt. Quarterly dividend distributions totaled $2.3 million. With cash on hand, combined with available borrowing capacity under our credit facility, we will continue to take a balanced approach to capital allocation between investing in the business to drive growth and returning cash to shareholders through dividends and opportunistic share buybacks under our repurchase program, which had $79 million remaining at the end of the quarter.

I'll now close with our third quarter outlook. Early third quarter non-holiday weekly revenue run rate has been largely consistent with the second quarter. As expected, due to the midweek timing of Christmas and New Year's Day, revenues from those 2 holiday weeks were much softer. Taking into account the seasonality and based on our current revenue backlog and expectations on late-stage pipeline deals, our outlook calls for revenues of $105 million to $110 million in the third quarter.

On the gross margin front, with the same seasonality impacting utilization and holiday pay for Agile consultant as well as employer payroll tax reset at the start of a new calendar year, we expect a gross margin of 35% to 36% in the third quarter. Now on to SG&A, reflecting realized benefits from our cost reduction efforts, offset by higher employer payroll taxes, run rate SG&A expense in the third quarter is expected to be in the range of $40 million to $42 million.

Non-run rate and noncash expenses will be in the range of $6 million to $7 million, consisting of noncash stock compensation and restructuring costs. In closing, reiterating what Roger stated earlier, our strategy and our path forward are clear. We will continue to focus on improving our sales execution, optimizing our talent and consulting solutions to serve the needs of our clients, driving an efficient cost structure to strengthen our business and deliver more value for our clients and shareholders. This concludes our prepared remarks, and we will now open the call for Q&A.

