RH (RH) Q3 2025 Earnings Call December 11, 2025 5:00 PM EST


Company Participants

Gary Friedman - Chairman & CEO
Jack Preston - Chief Financial Officer


Conference Call Participants

Allison Malkin - ICR Inc.
Steven Forbes - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Maksim Rakhlenko - TD Cowen, Research Division
Michael Lasser - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Simeon Gutman - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jonathan Matuszewski - Jefferies LLC, Research Division


Presentation


Operator

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the RH Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. As a reminder, this call is being recorded. I would now like to hand the call over to Ms. Allison Malkin. Please go ahead, ma'am.


Allison Malkin
ICR Inc.

Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our third quarter fiscal 2025 earnings call. Joining me today are Gary Friedman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Jack Preston, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we start, I would like to remind you of our legal disclaimer that we will make certain statements today that are forward-looking within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements about the outlook of our business and other matters referenced in our press release issued today.

These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please refer to our SEC filings as well as our press release issued today for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Please also note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this call, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results or revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.

Also, during this call, we may discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which adjust our GAAP results to eliminate the impact of certain items. You will find additional information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of these non-GAAP to GAAP measures in today's financial results press release.

A live broadcast of this call is also available on the Investor Relations section of our website at ir.rh.com. With that, I will now turn the call over to Gary.


Gary Friedman
Chairman & CEO

Great. Thank you, Allison. Good evening to those of you on the East Coast, and good afternoon on the West Coast. To our people, partners and shareholders, we continue to generate industry-leading growth with revenue increasing 9% in the third quarter and up 18% on a 2-year basis, demonstrating the disruptive nature of our brand despite the worst housing market in almost 50 years in the polarizing impact of tariffs.

Adjusted operating margin of 11.6% was below the 12.5% midpoint of our guidance due to higher-than-forecasted tariff expense on prior period special order and back order sales delivered in the quarter and higher-than-expected tariffs opening expenses. Adjusted EBITDA was 17.6%, and we generated $83 million of free cash flow in Q3. Year-to-date free cash flow reached $198 million, and we are on track to achieve our outlook range of $250 million to $300 million for the year. Net debt at the end of the quarter was $2.427 billion down $85 million from Q2. We ended Q3 with real estate assets that we believe have an estimated equity value of approximately $500 million and that we plan to monetize opportunistically as market conditions warrant.

Additionally, we are making progress on our goal of reducing excess inventory estimated at $300 million with inventory down 11% versus last year and down $82 million versus the second quarter. While a meaningful portion of our market share gains are coming from the fragmented to the trade design showrooms, regional high-end furniture stores and local independent boutiques, we are also gaining share from the better furniture-based national brands, as you can see from the table below.

I would point out that our share gains on a 2-year basis range from a low of 12 points to a high of 28 points. We find it fascinating that the market chooses to reward companies that set remarkably low expectations and slightly beat them versus setting high expectations as we do and at times miss them, while still meaningfully outperforming our industry.

Let me turn to our outlook. We are providing the following updated financial outlook, reflecting our year-to-date performance and our current trends. For the fourth quarter, revenue growth of 7% to 8%, adjusted operating margin of 12.5% to 13.5%, adjusted EBITDA margin of 18.7% to 19.6%. The above outlook includes an approximate negative 200 basis point operating margin impact from investments and start-up costs to support our international expansion and 170 basis point impact from tariff, net of mitigations.

Fiscal year 2025. Our current outlook now is revenue growth of 9% to 9.2%, adjusted operating margin of 11.6% to 11.9%, adjusted EBITDA margin of 17.6% to 18%, and free cash flow of $250 million to $300 million. The above outlook includes an approximately negative 210 basis point operating margin impact from investments to start-up cost to support our international expansion and a 90 basis point impact from tariffs net of mitigation.

"In the short run, the market is a voting machine. But in the long run, it is a weighing machine" - Benjamin Graham. We are a company that has planned the long game. Historically innovating and investing during uncertain times. We also believe post this high investment cycle and historically low housing market, the weighing machine, as it has done over a 25-year history, will accurately reward us with the truly unique high-performance brand we are building. On the other hand, there is no denying what an unusual time it is in our industry. And we also believe it's not a time to underestimate risk.

We're in the third year, the worst housing market in almost 50 years. In 1978, there were 4.09 million existing homes sold in the U.S. when the U.S. had a population of 223 million people. We are on track to average 4.07 million existing homes sold over the 3 years from 2023 to 2025 with a population of $341 million, or 53% higher than 1978. This is a market we've never seen before.

Not a time to underestimate risk, tariffs are disrupting supply chains and driving higher prices. There have been 16 different tariff announcements over the past 10 months that have resulted in significant resourcing, product delays, out of stocks, and driven multiple rounds of price negotiations and increases. Despite the chaos, we continue to demonstrate our ability to gain meaningful market share, while aggressively investing in strategies that we believe will create long-term strategic separation.

While not a time to underestimate risk, also not a time to run from it. It's important to separate the signal from the noise. And remember, necessity is the mother of invention. Our most important innovations were birth during the most challenging and uncertain times. Our strategic separation is a result of innovating and investing during these uncertain times, and this time is no different. Launching the most prolific product transformation in history of our industry and believe the launch of our new concept in the spring of next year will reaccelerate our growth and create another step change in our business.

We're building an iconic global selling platform that will likely never be duplicated in our lifetimes. Construction costs post-COVID have doubled across the industry, making it very difficult to emulate our immersive platform. At the same time, we have created new equally immersive physical experiences that are massively more capital efficient than we plan to unveil on our next call -- on our call next quarter.

We just opened what might be the most beautiful and talked about retail experience in the world and arguably the most important city in the world, especially if your vision is to build a global luxury brand. You know which one I'm talking about. RH Paris, you have to see it to believe it.

Developing a global -- we are developing a global hospitality business that generates significant brand awareness, traffic and cash flow. We have built a powerful restaurant company that is seamlessly integrated into our core business that will generate operating income that represents, on average, 65% of the aggregate galleries rent they reside in.

The RH Ocean Grill at RH Newport Beach is our first 20 million-plus restaurant, that we believe will reach the mid-20s in the second full year, and its cash flow next year might cover the rent for the entire 90,000 square foot Gallery. We're establishing a global interior design firm that is moving the brand beyond presenting and selling products to conceptualizing and selling spaces.

We opened our first freestanding RH Interior Design Office in Palm Desert, California, with no product except for 2 small sitting areas in front of our designers' offices. There's 4 offices in the building and a workspace with clients. It's a real freestanding customer-facing design firm, which really don't exist in the world, if you think about it. It's like finding a dentist, you move to a new area and you buy a new home, you need a dentist, what do you do? You Google it, you ask a friend, like where do you find an interior designer? I mean you can go online, I don't know how that's going to really help. But if you think about it, the world of interior design is not a customer-facing business. And we opened our first freestanding interior design office in Palm Desert with no product. It's a real freestanding customer-facing design firm, and is generating $1 million a month in design business in 3,000 square feet with rent of $200,000 a year. You can do the math.

All of which is resulting in building a brand with no peer, while generating industry-leading growth with high teens adjusted EBITDA margin. Imagine what our performance will look like in a robust housing market as we cycle and leverage these investments. Never underestimate the power of the few good people who don't know what can't be done, especially these people. Carpe Diem.

Operator, we'll now open the call to questions.


