Ralph Lauren Corporation (RL) Q2 2026 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Corinna Van Der Ghinst
Patrice Louvet - President, CEO & Director
Justin Picicci - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Matthew Boss - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Brooke Roach - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Michael Binetti - Evercore Inc.
Irwin Boruchow - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Dana Telsey - Telsey Advisory Group LLC
Laurent Vasilescu - BNP Paribas, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Ralph Lauren Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn over the conference to our host, Ms. Corinna Van der Ghinst. Please go ahead.

Corinna Van Der Ghinst

Good morning, and thank you for joining Ralph Lauren's Second Quarter Fiscal 2026 Conference Call. With me today are Patrice Louvet, the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Justin Picicci, Chief Financial Officer. After prepared remarks, we will open up the call for your questions, which we ask that you limit to 1 per caller.

During today's call, our financial performance will be discussed on a constant currency adjusted basis. Our reported results, including foreign currency, can be found in this morning's press release. We will also be making some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including our financial outlook. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees, and our actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.

Our expectations contain many risks and uncertainties. Principal risks and uncertainties that could cause our results to differ materially from our current expectations are detailed in our SEC filings. To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our financial results, you should refer to this morning's earnings release and to our SEC filings that can be found on our Investor Relations website.

With that, I will turn the call over to Patrice.

Patrice Louvet
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Corey. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. More than 8 years ago, we embarked on an ambitious journey of elevation across our brand, our products and our go-to-market strategy around the world, led by Ralph's vision of inspiring the dream of a better life, we put our consumers at the center and we put this company on the path of healthier, more consistent more sustainable, long-term growth and value creation.

In September, we were proud to introduce the latest iteration of this journey, which we are calling our Next Great Chapter: Drive plan. We outlined the vast opportunities still ahead for Ralph Lauren. We currently play in a total addressable premium and luxury market worth $400 billion. And we are just over $7 billion today, less than a 2% market share. Our strategy to grow our share and deliver long-term sustainable growth over the next 2 years and well beyond continues to be supported by multiple diversified engines. As a reminder, these include: First, elevate and energize our lifestyle brand; second, drive the core and expand for more; and third, win in key cities with our consumer ecosystem.

We are off to a strong start in the execution of this plan, with second quarter performance outpacing our expectations across the top and bottom line. These results underscore our diversity of growth opportunities and the broad-based momentum of our iconic brand, which is resonating across generations, cultures and geographies.

All 3 regions contributed to growth this quarter, including double-digit increases in retail comps and global wholesale sales. And we achieved this while continuing to elevate our brand and drive higher quality of sales. Our strong performance through the first half of this fiscal year also gives us confidence to take up our full year guidance once again, even as we remain relatively cautious on the second half of the year due to potential consumer headwinds and general volatility. While we are watching the macro environment closely, we remain well positioned to capture market share opportunities across categories and geographies. And we are firmly on offense with a focus on investing behind our brands, products and key city ecosystems to deliver growth for the long term.

Let me walk you through a few highlights from the quarter, where we drove progress across our 3 long-term strategic pillars. Starting with our efforts to elevate and energize our lifestyle brand. As many of you heard in September, Ralph Lauren has the most loyal customers in our defined premium and luxury market. Sitting at the heart of culture, we build relationships for life, independent of any single fashion trend or cycle. And by leaning into our inclusive luxury lifestyle positioning, we are engaging with consumers across the many facets of their lives, from the runway, to the biggest stages in sports, music, gaming and more. And all in a way that is authentic to the core values we've embraced for 58 years: Optimism, quality, authenticity, timelessness and the easy elegance of a life well lived.

Our teams delivered a powerful range of brand activations this quarter, as we successfully lapped last year's outstanding Paris Summer Olympics. Key highlights included: first, we continue to reinforce our position as one of the leading luxury apparel brands in the world of sports. We celebrated our 20th year as the official sponsor of both Wimbledon and the U.S. Open tennis championships this summer. Our Wimbledon storytelling combine the elegance and cherished traditions of British heritage with Ralph Lauren's refine spectator style. Our U.S. Open campaign paid homage to the most electric main stage in tennis to our colorful retro-inspired collection, delivering record-breaking sales around the event. And as sponsor of the U.S. team, we welcomed the Ryder Cup to Bethpage for the first time this fall.

Among our many activations, we took over part of Rockefeller Center Plaza and drove storytelling on social media with Nick Jonas and brand ambassador, Billy Horschel. Together, these sports lifestyle campaigns embodied both the proud tradition of sport and the progressive spirit that propels it forward. They drove a combined 67 billion global impressions and more than $350 million in media value.

Next, we hosted our Spring '26 Women's Collection fashion show here in New York City, showcasing a balance of strength and centrality in a modern palette of black, white and crimson. And beyond the runway, we delivered some of the most iconic celebrity moments of the season, from Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce choosing Ralph Lauren for their viral engagement, to the old Hollywood glamor of Selena Gomez's wedding to Benny Blanco.

Our activations are also driving strong sustainable growth in new customer acquisition and retention. In the second quarter, we added 1.5 million new consumers to our DTC businesses, a mid-single-digit increase to last year, driven by digital and full-price store customers. The ongoing momentum this quarter was led by luxury buyers and with balanced growth across men, women and younger cohorts. And we increased our social media followers by high single digits to 67 million, led by Instagram, TikTok, Douyin and LINE. This rolling thunder approach to activations enabled by our strong data and analytics capabilities, gives us confidence to continue our brand momentum as we look ahead.

Moving to our second key initiative, Drive the Core and Expand for More. Ralph's vision has always been about more than a tie or a polo shirt or a sweater. The heart of what we do is storytelling through our clothes and experiences through the cinematic worlds that Ralph has created. And our unique approach to styling enables customers to step into these worlds to build the wardrobes that tell the story of their lives, from that first red polo shirt in a school picture, to the striped silk polo dress in an engagement photo. This philosophy is embedded in how we drive our core products, as much as it is in our high potential and complementary lifestyle categories.

Starting with our core, which represents more than 70% of our business. Core product sales grew mid-teens this quarter, driven by strength in cotton, cable-knit, wool, cashmere and cotton shaker sweaters, linen and seasonal Oxford shirts, our lightweight jackets and our Icon Polo Chino caps. An exciting back-to-school season also drove growth and share gains in our core children's programs, led by cable-knit sweaters, quilted jackets and Oxford shirts. Our high-potential categories, including women's apparel, outerwear and handbags, continue to be accelerators for our business. Together, these categories increased strong double digits, outpacing total company growth in the quarter.

Women's apparel continued to be driven by our foundational core, along with a strong response to our seasonal styles. Highlights included our cable-knit jersey and featherweight cashmere sweaters, linen shirts, our transitional city and utility barn jackets and dresses. Momentum in our handbag business continued this quarter, driven by each of our women's labels and led by our foundational Polo ID collection; Polo Play, which launched this past spring and included exciting pop-up shops in Korea this quarter; our women's collection Ralph bags in seasonal region green leather and mocha suede; and an encouraging launch for our Tasha Collection, an elevated new offering in the Lauren family of handbags.

Special releases this quarter included our limited edition Polo Ralph Lauren for Oak Bluffs Collection in partnership with Morehouse and Spelman Colleges, a powerful celebration honoring the legacy of Oak Bluffs as a cultural haven for black communities in Martha's Vineyard. Our capsules for Wimbledon, the U.S. Open and Ryder Cup, with strong double-digit comp growth in each collection, led by our Polo Bear and Free Styles. And our newest Ralph's Club New York fragrance launch featuring Usher. We will continue to leverage the unparalleled breadth of our lifestyle product offering and power of our icons as consumer lifestyles evolve.

Turning to our third key initiative, Win in Key Cities with our Consumer Ecosystem. We continue to thoughtfully expand our consumer ecosystems to deepen Ralph Lauren's presence in our top 30 cities around the world, delivering a cohesive, elevated brand experience across each of our channels. At the same time, we've started investing in our next 20 cities, laying the groundwork for long-term sustainable growth. Within DTC, which comprises the majority of our business, we delivered another strong quarter of comp growth across regions. Global comps increased 13%, above our expectations, with double-digit growth in both our digital sites and physical stores. All 3 regions outperformed our expectations again in the second quarter, with double-digit growth in every geography, including North America.

Asia once again led our growth, with sales up mid-teens, driven by all key markets. China grew more than 30% in the quarter, ahead of our outlook with a strong consumer response to our brand building activities, including our Summer of Sports campaigns and amplification of our New York Fashion Show. As we continue to reinforce our presence in our top cities, we opened 38 new owned and partner stores globally. And we recently announced that we are opening our sixth restaurant, bringing our iconic Polo Bar experience to London. The opening is slated for 2028. And yes, we're already getting requests for tables.

And finally, touching on our enablers. Our business continues to be supported by our 5 key enablers. Recent highlights include: first, as part of our focus on delivering advanced technology, AI and analytics. In September, we launched our new AI styling tool, Ask Ralph, that we developed with Microsoft, bringing Ralph's iconic styling right to your pocket. Ask Ralph builds on our history of innovating the consumer shopping experience and immersing our consumers in the world of Ralph Lauren with cutting-edge technology. While still early, customer engagement and feedback have been encouraging. And this is an exciting step forward in our journey to test and learn new tools to better serve our consumers, drive conversion and ultimately build lifetime value.

Second, our teams and our culture drive our performance. We were proud to be named one of America's Best Employers for Company Culture by Forbes. And finally, Ralph Lauren was honored in Fast Company's 2025 Innovation by Design Awards for our unforgettable brand presence at the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris. We look forward to building on this legacy, bringing our heritage of sport and style to life at the Milano Cortina Winter Olympics in February.

In closing, Ralph and I are incredibly proud and grateful for the hard work, care and dedication that our teams are delivering around the world. Together, we are building on Ralph's legacy and vision with this next great chapter of growth. We remain focused on creating value through a distinct brand position that's clear, consistent, relevant and emotionally resonant. A legacy of leadership in fashion, in culture and in innovation and a proven ability to execute with creativity, agility and operating discipline, all underpinned by our fortress balance sheet and ongoing commitment to embrace new technology and support our teams, partners and communities.

With that, I'll hand it over to Justin, and I'll join him at the end to answer your questions.

Justin Picicci
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Patrice, and good morning, everyone. Our second quarter results demonstrate strong progress as we embark on our Next Great Chapter: Drive plan, showcasing our team's agility and unwavering focus on execution.

Top line performance exceeded our expectations, reaching our highest Q2 revenues since we began our elevation journey more than 8 years ago. Results were driven by broad-based performance across every region and channel, highlighting our brand strength and authentic connection with consumers around the world. Gross and operating margins once again outperformed our outlook as we continue to elevate across all markets. Each of our 3 regions contributed to operating margin expansion despite the volatile global operating environment. And we achieved all of this while continuing to invest behind our strategic drivers of long-term growth. As Patrice mentioned, our strong year-to-date results and brand momentum give us confidence to raise our full year outlook, even as we maintain a relatively cautious stance into the second half, given the macroeconomic uncertainty and exceptionally strong prior year compares.

But first, let me walk you through our financial highlights from the second quarter, which, as a reminder, are provided on a constant currency basis. Total company second quarter revenue growth of 14% was above our high single-digit outlook. By region, Asia and Europe led our performance, with sales increasing 16% and 15%, respectively, followed closely by North America, up 13%. Total company retail comps increased 13%, with ongoing momentum in both our own digital business and stores. Total digital ecosystem sales, including our own sites and wholesale digital accounts grew double digits, reflecting balanced growth across regions. Total company adjusted gross margin expanded 70 basis points to 67.7%. The increase was driven by AUR growth, favorable mix shift toward our full-price businesses and lower cotton costs, which more than offset tariffs, labor and non-cotton material costs. AUR increased 12% in the second quarter, supported by strong full-price selling trends, reduced discounting, modest targeted pricing growth and favorable product mix.

We currently expect high single-digit AUR growth for the second half of fiscal '26 based on similar drivers. Adjusted operating expenses increased 11%, reflecting a 130 basis point decline as a percentage of sales to last year. We delivered leverage across key expense categories, including rent, marketing and selling on better-than-expected sales. Second quarter marketing investments grew 2% to last year. As a percentage of sales, marketing normalized at 7.8% compared to last year's 8.7%, which included our Paris Olympic activations. We now expect marketing as a percentage of sales to be approximately 7.5% in fiscal '26, in line with our long-range plan.

Second quarter adjusted operating margin expanded 210 basis points to 13.5%, with adjusted operating income increasing 34%.

Moving to segment performance and starting with North America. Second quarter revenue increased 13%, above our expectations with balanced growth across our direct-to-consumer and wholesale businesses. In North America Retail, second quarter comps were up 13%, led once again by our Ralph Lauren stores. Digital comps grew 15%, supported by our strategy of full funnel activations, which drove higher quality of sales. In North America wholesale, revenue also increased 13%, driven by strong performance in digital wholesale and our top premium and luxury doors as well as stronger-than-expected replenishment. We are encouraged by our recent sellout trends, but maintain a more measured outlook for the second half of fiscal '26 based on further strategic reductions in off-price sales in the fourth quarter and potential near-term macro pressures across the broader channel. We still plan to exit 90 to 100 wholesale doors in fiscal '26 with approximately half of these related to Hudson's Bay.

Moving to Europe. Second quarter revenue increased 15%, exceeding our expectations. Growth was driven by continued momentum across both our retail and wholesale channels. All key markets delivered growth in the quarter, reflecting our ongoing brand strength and elevation. Europe retail comps increased 10% to last year with strong performance across stores and digital channels. Our Europe digital ecosystem increased double digits, driven by both our wholesale and owned digital businesses. Europe wholesale increased 18%, driven by higher-than-expected reorders and a planned shift in shipments into the first half of the fiscal year, as we previously discussed. The timing shift represented approximately 11 points of the wholesale increase in Q2, with the channel still reflecting healthy underlying growth.

Turning to Asia. Second quarter revenue and retail comps each grew 16%, with every key market contributing to growth. China once again led our performance, with sales increasing more than 30% to last year, driven by robust comps and new customer recruitment, enabling our continued outperformance versus peers in the market. Sales in Japan increased high single digits, driven by strong full-price selling and reduced discounting.

Building out our digital presence remains a significant long-term opportunity across Asia. We are encouraged by our early progress, including double-digit revenue growth this quarter. We drove meaningful acceleration on our Japan digital site, supported by the recent transition to our global e-commerce operating system. And in China, we continue to expand our presence on Douyin since launching our Women's Shop earlier in 2025, including our first Wimbledon live stream digital event this quarter.

Moving to the balance sheet. Our strong balance sheet and cash flow generation continue to be powerful enablers of our long-term strategy, supporting both our strategic growth investments and our commitment to shareholder returns. In the second quarter, we finalized the purchase of our Newbury Street store in Boston and also retired our $400 million in senior notes, which matured in September. In addition to our regular dividend, we have repurchased $313 million in shares this fiscal year-to-date, returning a combined total of approximately $420 million to shareholders. We ended the period with $1.6 billion in cash and short-term investments and $1.2 billion in total debt.

Net inventory moderated from Q1 levels as planned, increasing 12% to last year, roughly in line with revenue growth. Our inventories are well positioned to meet consumer demand in each of our regions for the holiday season. Looking ahead, our outlook remains based on our best assessment of the current operating environment, geopolitical backdrop and macroeconomic trends. This includes tariffs and other inflationary pressures, supply chain disruptions and foreign currency fluctuations, among other considerations.

For fiscal '26, we now expect constant currency revenues to increase in a range of approximately 5% to 7%, up from low to mid-single digits previously. This is slightly ahead of the 3-year guidance we provided in September for year 1 of our long-range plan. Foreign currency is now expected to benefit revenue growth by about 200 to 250 basis points this year. The increased outlook reflects our better-than-expected performance in the first 2 quarters of the year, as well as our continued brand momentum into fall holiday despite the challenging compares.

With our strong first half results, we now expect North America revenues to be up slightly for the full year versus our prior outlook of a low single-digit decline. We continue to expect Q4 to be the weakest quarter of the year for North America based on our caution around cost inflation related pressures on U.S. consumers, in addition to our planned strategic reductions in off-price wholesale. We expect Europe to grow at the high end of mid-single digits, unchanged from our previous guide, with the first half benefiting from planned wholesale timing shifts, followed by a sequential deceleration due to challenging second half compares. Despite the timing shifts, we still expect healthy underlying growth in Europe, in line with our long-term plan. And we now expect Asia to be up high single to low double digits for both the second half and the full year, up from high single digits previously.

Operating margin is now expected to expand approximately 60 to 80 basis points in constant currency, up from our prior guidance of 40 to 60 basis points, primarily driven by expense leverage. We now anticipate constant currency gross margin to expand about 10 to 30 basis points for the full year, with further growth in AUR, favorable cotton costs and geographic mix more than offsetting pressure from tariffs. Foreign currency is expected to benefit gross and operating margins by about 30 to 50 basis points in fiscal '26.

Following our strategic pull forward of receipts, we continue to expect tariff headwinds to ramp up in our fiscal Q3 and become more pronounced into Q4. As a result, we still expect a notable year-over-year gross margin decline in Q4 due to the combination of reciprocal tariffs, unusually strong prior year compares and previously discussed timing shifts, all negatively impacting our smallest revenue quarter of the year. We remain confident in our long-term gross margin outlook of 50 to 100 basis points of expansion over the 3 years of our Drive plan, with expansion expected in each year.

While we anticipate gross margin pressure over the next few quarters, Q4 of this fiscal year is still expected to be the most negatively impacted quarter, driven by the additional timing-related headwinds. As we move through next fiscal year, we expect to mitigate these pressures more meaningfully as we begin to lap the tariffs and our sourcing shifts and other mitigating actions take effect more broadly. For the third quarter, we expect constant currency revenues to increase approximately mid-single digits, reflecting a slightly improved outlook for the back half of the year versus our expectations in August and coming into the year. Foreign currency is expected to benefit revenues by approximately 150 to 200 basis points. We expect third quarter operating margin to expand approximately 60 to 80 basis points in constant currency. This is driven by 50 to 70 basis points of gross margin expansion, as well as slight operating expense leverage, more than offsetting tariffs and higher marketing investments to support our global holiday activations and Polo Women's fashion presentation in Paris. Foreign currency is expected to benefit gross and operating margins by about 10 and 20 basis points, respectively, in the third quarter. We expect our third quarter tax rate to be in the range of 21% to 23%, and a full year tax rate of approximately 19% to 21%.

In closing, we are proud of our team's strong execution and early progress on our Next Great Chapter: Drive plan across the world through the first half of this fiscal year. Even in an operating environment that remains dynamic, our agility, fortress balance sheet, culture of operating discipline and multiple engines of growth give us confidence in our ability to continue delivering sustainable long-term value. As we shape the future of inclusive luxury lifestyle, we remain focused on investing in the key strategic priorities that will enable us to connect with the consumers more broadly and deeply than ever before and to continue inspiring them to dream.

With that, let's open up the call for your questions.