RTX Corporation (RTX) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

Christopher Calio - Chairman & CEO
Neil Mitchill - Executive VP & CFO
Nathan Ware - Vice President of Investor Relations.

Conference Call Participants

Peter Arment - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Ronald Epstein - BofA Securities, Research Division
Kristine Liwag - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Robert Stallard - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
Scott Deuschle - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Myles Walton - Wolfe Research, LLC
Seth Seifman - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
John Godyn - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Gautam Khanna - TD Cowen, Research Division
Sheila Kahyaoglu - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Douglas Harned - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Scott Mikus - Melius Research LLC
Matthew Akers - BNP Paribas, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the RTX Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Olivia, and I'll be your operator for today. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. On the call today are Chris Calio, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Neil Mitchill, Chief Financial Officer; and Nathan Ware, Vice President of Investor Relations.

This call is being webcast live on the internet, and there is a presentation available for download from RTX website at www.rtx.com. Please note, except where otherwise noted, the company will speak to results from continuing operations, excluding acquisition, accounting adjustments and net nonrecurring and/or significant items often referred to by management as other significant items. The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties. RTX SEC filings, including its Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K, provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. [Operator Instructions]

With that, I will turn the call over to Mr. Calio.

Christopher Calio
Chairman & CEO

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. We delivered strong sales, adjusted EPS and free cash flow in the fourth quarter, underscoring our momentum and focus on execution across RTX. For the full year, adjusted sales were $88.6 billion, up $9 billion year-over-year or 11% organically driven by 10% growth in commercial OE, 18% growth in commercial aftermarket and 8% growth in defense. Adjusted EPS of $6.29 was up 10% year-over-year on drop-through from higher sales. And free cash flow was a robust $7.9 billion, up $3.4 billion year-over-year.

Our performance continues to be driven by the durable demand for our products and services and operational improvements enabled by our core operating system. On the orders front, we ended 2025 with a full year book-to-bill of 1.56, resulting in another record backlog of $268 billion, up 23% year-over-year with roughly $161 billion of commercial orders and $107 billion of defense awards. On the commercial side of the business, our backlog is up 29% year-over-year driven by growing aircraft production rates and resilient passenger air travel. Orders and commitments during the year included over 1,500 GTF engines and over 2,400 Pratt Canada engines.

On the defense side, our book-to-bill for the year was a very strong 1.31 and included several significant fourth quarter awards. For example, Raytheon booked $1.2 billion to supply Spain with additional Patriot air and missile defense systems and was also awarded a $1.2 billion contract for Tamir missile production with work to be executed in our recently completed Camden, Arkansas facility. Raytheon booked $40 billion of awards in the year and their international backlog mix is now 47%, up 3 points from the end of 2024. At Pratt, the military business booked $2.2 billion in sustainment contracts to support multiple engines, including the F135 and the F119. And at Collins in the fourth quarter, the business was awarded a $438 million contract from the FAA to deliver radar systems for the broader radar system replacement program, which will help modernize the U.S. air traffic control system.

So overall, a very strong year of orders across the company, highlighting the growing demand of our products and services and setting us up very well heading into 2026. Neil will walk you through the details of the fourth quarter and our 2026 outlook in a few minutes. But first, let me briefly comment on the operating environment that we see today. Demand remains strong, which combined with our existing backlog and focus on execution positions us well for another year of top line growth.

Commercial air travel is expected to grow again. The global RPK is projected to increase around 5% this year on top of the 5% we saw in 2025. On the commercial OE front, given the substantial airframer backlogs, we expect OEM production rates to increase again this year, particularly on the A320neo, 737 MAX and 787 platforms as well as on business jet and general aviation aircraft, all platforms where we have significant content. In commercial aftermarket, our growing installed base, which now includes about $105 billion of out-of-warranty aircraft content at Collins and expanding fleet of engines at Pratt, positions us well for sustained commercial aftermarket growth.

On defense, there's a heightened need for munitions in integrated air and missile defense as the U.S. and partner countries work to replenish inventories, modernize existing systems and invest in new capabilities. We understand that our products are critical to maintaining security around the world and we fully support the Department of War's transformation objectives to significantly increase capacity and accelerate production over a sustained period. And given the commercial expertise in our business, we are very well positioned to bring a commercial approach to the Department's transformation initiatives.

On the international side, NATO allies, which today spend around 2% of GDP on defense, have committed to increasing their core defense spending to approximately 3.5% of GDP by 2035. And across the Asia Pacific and Middle East regions, defense budgets are projected to grow at an average of 3% to 4% annually over the next 5 years with several countries at record levels. Altogether, these growing global demand signals support another strong financial outlook for RTX. For 2026, we expect adjusted sales to be between $92 billion and $93 billion, with 5% to 6% organic growth year-over-year.

Increased volume, along with pricing and our continued focus on productivity and our cost structure, will support another year of consolidated segment margin expansion. We expect adjusted EPS to be between $6.60 and $6.80 with between $8.25 billion and $8.75 billion of free cash flow for the year. Consistent with 2025, our performance will be underpinned by our strategic priorities and a relentless focus on operational execution.

Moving to Slide 4. Let me highlight how we continue to drive execution, improve productivity and increase output utilizing our core operating system and digital solutions. At Raytheon, the team leveraged core to significantly increase munitions output across the business in 2025. Notably, we saw output increase by 20% across a number of our critical programs, including GEM-T for the Patriot Air and Missile Defense System, AMRAAM, which is the premier air-to-air combat proven effector, and Coyote to support counter-UAS capabilities. In 2026, we expect to significantly increase output again on these programs as well as on other critical munitions, including SM6 and Tomahawk.

We're also continuing to deploy our proprietary data analytics and AI tools across our factories to monitor daily key performance indicators, identify bottlenecks to reduce work in process and track equipment health and performance, all to enable more informed decisions, reduce costs and improve output. Across RTX, we've now connected factories that represent over 50% of our annual manufacturing hours to our digital platform, and we're seeing the benefits. For example, Pratt has reduced aged inventory by about 45% at its Lansing, Michigan facility, which manufactures GTF fan blades. And within Raytheon's Andover, Massachusetts facility, we've reduced circuit card production cycle times by about 35%. In 2026, we'll continue to see these benefits as we connect more equipment and expand coverage across our footprint.

On the GTF fleet management plan, our financial and technical outlooks remain on track. As planned, PW1100 AOGs declined in the fourth quarter, and we expect this trend to continue as we move throughout the year. MRO output was up 39% in the fourth quarter and up 26% for the full year, even as heavier shop visits increased 40% in 2025. We also announced the addition of 2 new MRO shops with the UAE Sanad Group and Spain's ITP Aero joining the GTF MRO network. We expect this momentum to continue in 2026 with year-over-year growth in PW1100 MRO output in line with what we saw in 2025.

To support our operational growth, we continue to make significant investments in capacity and technology. In 2025, we invested over $10 billion in CapEx and company and customer-funded research and development with a concentration on expanding our production capacity and factory automation, bringing new products to the market and our cross-company technology road maps. On the CapEx front, we invested $2.6 billion last year. This included significant capacity expansion at Raytheon in areas such as Tucson, Arizona for Tomahawk and classified programs and Huntsville, Alabama to increase output for the Standard Missile family.

We also made investments to increase production in other key facilities across the company, such as Spokane, Washington to support Collins' carbon brake production; and Asheville, North Carolina to expand Pratt's turbine airflow, machining and coating capacity to the GTF and F135. In the fourth quarter, we received the EU certification of the GTF Advantage engine and expect aircraft certification soon. We have begun production cut-in of the Advantage engine and expect entry into service later this year, along with certification and first installations of the associated Hot Section Plus upgrade package for MRO customers.

We're also progressing on our strategic partnerships. In 2025, we made $85 million in investments across 19 companies through RTX Ventures in areas such as autonomy, advanced manufacturing, space and propulsion. This included a successful demonstration of Raytheon's DeepStrike autonomous mobile launcher vehicle in collaboration with multiple RTX Ventures portfolio companies. In 2026, we plan to invest another $10.5 billion in CapEx in company and customer-funded research and development, including another $3.1 billion in CapEx on top of the $2.6 billion I just highlighted for last year. Specifically, Raytheon will continue capacity investments in areas such as Tucson and Andover, building on projects completed last year and creating additional capacity for munitions and sensors, including the Standard Missile family, AMRAAM, Tomahawk, Patriot and LTAMDS.

Collins will increase CapEx this year to support growing commercial and defense platforms, including the expansion of the Richardson, Texas facility, the Survivable Airborne Operations Center and the E-130J programs. And Pratt will continue to invest in capacity across multiple sites, including Columbus, Georgia to increase forging production and Asheville to establish a foundry to produce turbine airflow castings. We've got great momentum heading into 2026 and feel very good about how our company is positioned to drive another year of strong growth in organic sales, segment margin expansion and free cash flow generation.

With that, let me turn it over to Neil to take you through the fourth quarter results and more details on our 2026 outlook. Neil?

Neil Mitchill
Executive VP & CFO

All right, Chris. Thanks. I'm on Slide 5. As you saw, we had very strong financial performance to finish the year. In the fourth quarter, adjusted sales of $24.2 billion were up 12% on an adjusted basis and 14% organically. By channel, organic growth was driven by commercial OE which was up 18%, commercial aftermarket which was up 17% and defense which was up 10%. Adjusted segment operating profit of $2.9 billion was up 9% year-over-year, and adjusted earnings per share of $1.55 was up 1% from prior year as strong segment operating profit growth was partially offset by expected higher corporate expenses and a higher effective tax rate in the quarter.

On a GAAP basis, EPS from continuing operations was $1.19 and included $0.31 of acquisition accounting adjustments and $0.05 of restructuring and all other nonrecurring items. This included a $0.15 settlement charge associated with a pension transaction we completed in the quarter. Free cash flow for the quarter was very strong at $3.2 billion, bringing our full year free cash flow to $7.9 billion, as Chris said. This included approximately $1 billion of powder metal-related compensation and approximately $600 million of tariff-related impacts. Lastly, in the quarter, we paid down $1.1 billion of debt and completed the divestiture of the Collins' Simmonds business.

Okay. With that, let me hand it over to Nathan to take you through the segment results, and then I'll come back and share some details on our 2026 outlook.

Nathan Ware
Vice President of Investor Relations.

Okay. Thanks, Neil. Starting with Collins on Slide 6. Sales were $7.7 billion in the quarter, up 3% on an adjusted basis and 8% organically driven principally by strength across commercial OE and aftermarket. Adjusting for divestitures by channel, commercial OE sales were up 9% driven by higher volume on widebody and narrowbody platforms. Commercial aftermarket sales were up 13% driven by a 24% increase in provisioning, an 11% increase in parts and repair and a 7% increase in mods and upgrades. Defense sales were up 2% versus the prior year on a difficult compare driven by higher volume across multiple programs. Recall that the prior year was up 13%.

Adjusted operating profit of $1.2 billion was up $16 million versus the prior year as drop-through on higher commercial aftermarket and OE volume was partially offset by the impact of the divestitures completed during the year and higher tariffs across the business. For the full year, Collins generated $30.2 billion of adjusted sales and $4.9 billion of adjusted operating profit, resulting in 9% organic sales growth and 30 basis points of year-over-year margin expansion.

Shifting to Pratt & Whitney on Slide 7. Sales of $9.5 billion were up 25% on both an adjusted and organic basis driven by strength across all channels. Commercial OE sales were up 28% driven by increased deliveries and favorable mix in large commercial engines with large commercial engine deliveries up 6% for the full year. Commercial aftermarket sales were up 21% driven by higher volume including heavier content in large commercial engines and Pratt Canada. In military engines, sales were up 30% driven by higher F135 production volume and higher sustainment volume across multiple platforms including the F135 and F100.

Adjusted operating profit of $776 million was up $59 million versus the prior year driven by drop-through in higher military and commercial aftermarket volume as well as favorable military and commercial OE mix. This was partially offset by the impact of commercial aftermarket mix, higher tariffs across the business, higher SG&A expense and the absence of an approximately $70 million prior year insurance recovery. For the full year, Pratt generated $32.9 billion of adjusted sales and $2.7 billion of adjusted operating profit, resulting in 17% organic sales growth and 20 basis points of year-over-year margin expansion.

Turning to Raytheon on Slide 8. Sales of $7.7 billion in the quarter were up 7% on both an adjusted and organic basis driven by higher volume on land and air defense systems including Patriot and GEM-T and higher volume on naval programs including Evolved SeaSparrow Missile and Tomahawk. This was partially offset by the absence of a prior year benefit related to a restart of contracts with a Middle East customer. Adjusted operating profit of $885 million was up $157 million versus the prior year driven by improved net productivity, higher volume and favorable program mix.

Bookings in the quarter were $10.3 billion resulting in a book-to-bill of 1.35 and a record backlog of $75 billion with a full year book-to-bill of 1.43. In addition to the awards Chris mentioned earlier, other key awards in the quarter included over $900 million of classified bookings and approximately $600 million for NASAMS. For the full year, Raytheon generated $28 billion of adjusted sales and $3.2 billion of adjusted operating profit, resulting in 6% organic sales growth and 130 basis points of year-over-year margin expansion, including $157 million of improved net productivity.

With that, I'll hand it back over to Neil to provide some more details on our 2026 outlook.

Neil Mitchill
Executive VP & CFO

Thanks, Nathan. Turning to Slide 9. Let me take you through the drivers of our 2026 outlook that Chris highlighted, starting with sales. Given our current backlog and the demand environment we've discussed, we expect total RTX sales to be between $92 billion and $93 billion for the full year. On an organic basis, this translates to between 5% and 6% top line growth. By sales channel at the RTX level and adjusting for divestitures, we expect both commercial OE and defense to grow mid-single digits and commercial aftermarket to be up high single digits.

Moving to EPS. Let me take you through the year-over-year walk. For the year, the most significant driver will be segment operating profit which will drive approximately $0.59 of EPS growth at the midpoint of our outlook range. Included in this segment growth is a headwind of roughly $0.03 associated with the divestitures we completed last year at Collins. And with lower average debt, we expect a tailwind from lower interest of about $0.06. Partially offsetting these items is approximately $0.13 from lower pension income driven primarily by the actions we've taken to derisk our pension plans, including the transaction I just mentioned. Finally, we expect a $0.05 headwind from a higher share count and anticipate a $0.06 headwind from all other items largely related to higher minority interest associated with our joint ventures. All in, this brings our adjusted EPS outlook range to between $6.60 and $6.80 for the year.

Moving to our free cash flow walk. Operational performance primarily segment operating profit growth will drive an improvement of approximately $1.1 billion. This operational improvement includes a slight working capital tailwind as we continue our company-wide initiatives to improve inventory management. Specific to powder metal compensation, we expect around $700 million for the year which results in a tailwind of about $300 million year-over-year. Partially offsetting these items will be the impact of higher CapEx of approximately $500 million as we invest to support the growing customer demand that Chris discussed. For the full year, we expect to invest approximately $3.1 billion in CapEx. Lastly, we expect a headwind of approximately $300 million for all other items, including the net impact of pension, interest, taxes and other investments. All in, we expect free cash flow to be between $8.25 billion and $8.75 billion for the full year.

With that, let's turn to Slide 10 and I'll provide the details around our segment outlooks. Starting with Collins, we expect full year sales to be up mid-single digits on an adjusted basis and up high single digits organically. Adjusting for the divestitures we completed in 2025, we expect commercial OE to be up approximately 10% driven by double-digit growth across narrowbody and widebody production, along with single-digit growth across business jet and civil rotorcraft platforms. Commercial aftermarket is expected to be up high single digits driven primarily by further growth in out-of-warranty flight hours and global RPKs.

Defense sales are expected to be up mid-single digits driven by multiple programs, including the F-35 and other mission systems platforms. With respect to Collins adjusted operating profit, we expect it to grow between $425 million and $525 million versus the prior year. This is driven by drop-through on higher volume across all 3 channels, higher pricing and the benefit of continued cost reduction efforts across the business. Keep in mind, this profit outlook includes an approximately $50 million headwind associated with the completed divestitures.

Shifting to Pratt & Whitney, we expect full year sales to be up mid-single digits on both an adjusted and organic basis. By channel, we expect commercial OE to be up low single digits as increased large commercial and Pratt Canada engine deliveries are partially offset by engine mix within large commercial engines. Commercial aftermarket is expected to be up high single digits driven by higher volume across large commercial engines, primarily GTF and Pratt Canada. Within the military business at Pratt, sales are expected to be up mid-single digits driven by higher F135 production and sustainment volume. For Pratt's adjusted operating profit, we expect growth of between $225 million and $325 million versus the prior year. This is driven by drop-through on higher commercial aftermarket and military volume and cost reduction efforts across the business, partially offset by increased commercial OE deliveries and mix.

Turning to Raytheon. We expect sales to grow mid- to high single digits on both an adjusted and organic basis principally driven by growth across land and air defense systems. Raytheon's adjusted operating profit is expected to be up between $200 million and $300 million versus the prior year driven by drop-through on higher volume, favorable contract mix and improved net productivity. In addition to the segment outlooks, we've included guidance for pension and some of the other below-the-line items in the appendix of our earnings presentation. All in, 2026 is expected to be another strong year of financial performance for RTX with all 3 segments delivering growth in organic sales and operating profit with continued margin expansion and solid cash conversion.

Okay. With that, I'll hand it back over to Chris to wrap things up.

Christopher Calio
Chairman & CEO

Okay. Thanks, Neil. Looking at our 2025 results, it's clear we have built great momentum across RTX, delivering both top and bottom line growth throughout a dynamic year. I want to thank all of our employees across RTX for their hard work, dedication and commitment to our mission that led to these results. As we move into 2026, our strategic priorities remain consistent. We are committed to making the right investments in the business to support the favorable long-term demand we see and drive sustainable growth this year and beyond.

With that, let's open it up for questions.

