Revolution Medicines, Inc. (RVMD) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 5, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Ryan Asay - Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs
Mark Goldsmith - CEO, President & Chairman
Wei Lin - Chief Medical Officer
Jack Anders - Chief Financial Officer
Alan Bart Sandler - Chief Development Officer
Anthony Mancini
Stephen Kelsey - President of Research & Development

Conference Call Participants

Jonathan Chang - Leerink Partners LLC, Research Division
Yue-Wen Zhu - LifeSci Capital, LLC, Research Division
Michael Schmidt - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Morgan Lamberti - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Lut Ming Cheng - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Marc Frahm - TD Cowen, Research Division
Leonid Timashev - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Jenna Li - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Asthika Goonewardene - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Alec Stranahan - BofA Securities, Research Division
Joseph Catanzaro - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Laura Prendergast - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Ami Fadia - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Revolution Medicines Q3 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Ryan Asay, Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs. Please go ahead.

Ryan Asay
Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs

Thank you, and welcome to our third quarter 2025 earnings call. Joining me on today's call are Dr. Mark Goldsmith, Revolution Medicine's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dr. Wei Lin, our Chief Medical Officer; and Jack Anders, our Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Steve Kelsey, our President of Research and Development; Dr. Alan Sandler, our Chief Development Officer; and Anthony Mancini, our Chief Global Commercialization Officer, will join us for the Q&A portion of today's call.

I'd like to inform you that certain statements we make during this call will be forward-looking because such statements deal with future events and are subject to many risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. For a full discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please review our annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This afternoon, we released financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2025, and recent corporate updates. The press release and updated corporate presentation are available on the Investors section of our website at revmed.com.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Dr. Mark Goldsmith, Revolution Medicines' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mark?

Mark Goldsmith
CEO, President & Chairman

Thanks, Ryan, and good afternoon. At Revolution Medicines, we are tireless in our commitment to revolutionizing treatment for patients with RAS-addicted cancers through the discovery, development and delivery of innovative targeted medicines. With robust operational capabilities, financial strength and 3 compelling clinical stage RAS(ON) inhibitors, we are building the leading global RAS-targeted medicines franchise that we believe has the potential to transform treatment for patients living with pancreatic, lung and colorectal cancers.

In the quarter, we continued to make substantial progress as we scale the organization and advance our pipeline to fulfill our global development and commercialization ambitions. Today, we'll begin by highlighting recent progress across our pipeline, beginning with daraxonrasib in pancreatic cancer. I'd like to note that daraxonrasib has received 3 special designations from the FDA, recognizing its potential role in treating patients with pancreatic cancer, an aggressive disease that is nearly always caused by a RAS mutation.

Previously, daraxonrasib was awarded breakthrough therapy status and recently, it received both Orphan Drug Designation and an Commissioner’s National Priority Voucher for accelerating review of a new drug application. These highlight the significant unmet medical needs in pancreatic cancer and the potential of this investigational drug to transform treatment for patients living with this devastating disease.

I'd like to invite Dr. Wei Lin to walk through our most recent clinical updates in pancreatic cancer. Wei?

Wei Lin
Chief Medical Officer

Thanks, Mark. daraxonrasib is our RAS(ON) multi-selective inhibitor with a promising clinical profile in multiple indications, including pancreatic cancer. In September, we presented long-term follow-up data from the Phase I daraxonrasib monotherapy cohort of patients with second-line metastatic pancreatic cancer. These results reinforce our understanding of the strong clinical antitumor activity and durability. The acceptable safety and tolerability profile remained consistent with earlier findings with no new safety signals observed.

Slide 10 shows that with longer follow-up, durability outcomes remained encouraging. The estimated median progression-free survival for patients with both the RAS G12X and all RAS mutant groups exceeded 8 months. The estimated median overall survival was 13.1 months and 15.6 months for patients in the G12X and RAS mutant groups, respectively, with a lower bound of 95% confidence interval at approximately 11 months. These results are particularly compelling, especially in the context of standard of care cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens that were reported in randomized controlled trials to provide a median overall survival of 6 to 7 months in the second line and approximately 11 months in the first-line setting.

RASolute 302, our Phase III registrational trial in patients with second-line metastatic PDAC is winding down enrollment globally as we near completion of enrollment across all U.S. and international sites. We remain on track for an expected data readout in 2026. In September, we also shared encouraging initial results for daraxonrasib in first-line metastatic pancreatic cancer, both as monotherapy and in combination with standard of care chemotherapy.

As shown in Slide 11, daraxonrasib monotherapy induced tumor regressions in most patients with an objective response rate of 47% and disease control rate of 89%. The majority of patients remained on study treatment as of the data cutoff. While the data were not sufficiently mature to estimate the median progression-free survival or overall survival, we continue to follow these patients to assess the durability of clinical benefit. The acceptable safety profile of daraxonrasib monotherapy in the first-line metastatic setting was generally consistent with what has been reported in patients with second-line metastatic disease.

On Slide 12, the combination of daraxonrasib plus gemcitabine nab-paclitaxel or GnP chemotherapy also delivered significant antitumor activity represented by deep and sustained tumor regressions with an objective response rate of 55% and disease control rate of 90%. Most patients remained on treatment as of the data cutoff. Again, longer follow-up is required to estimate median progression-free survival and overall survival. As with monotherapy, the combination regimen showed an acceptable safety profile. The rates of treatment-related adverse events were additive of the individual agents.

No new safety signals were observed. We expect to share updated data from patients treated with daraxonrasib with or without GnP in first-line PDAC, including preliminary durability in the first half of 2026. Building on the encouraging early phase data in the first-line and second-line settings, we are advancing RASolute 303, a randomized 3-arm Phase III trial in patients with first-line metastatic PDAC as shown on Slide 13.

This registrational trial will compare daraxonrasib monotherapy or daraxonrasib plus GnP followed by daraxonrasib monotherapy to a comparator arm of GnP alone. The design of this 3-arm study provides 2 distinct opportunities to demonstrate potential survival benefit for patients. Treatment with daraxonrasib as monotherapy in first line, followed eventually by chemotherapy in second line or alternatively treating concurrently with both daraxonrasib and chemotherapy in first line. Both strategies have scientific and clinical merit and deserve to be evaluated.

We remain on track to initiate RASolute 303 this year. I'd like to provide an overview of the current standard of care in the setting of resectable PDAC. While surgery along with perioperative cytotoxic chemotherapy offers patients the possibility of a cure, the relapse rate is high at approximately 80%. The current standard of care for perioperative treatment is cytotoxic chemotherapy, either modified FOLFIRINOX or gemcitabine and capecitabine. The publicly reported disease-free survival rate on these chemotherapy regimens ranges from 13.9 months to 21.6 months. Our 3-year disease-free survival ranges from approximately 20% to 40%.

We believe there remains significant room for improvement that may be served with RAS-targeted therapy. The strength of the daraxonrasib monotherapy data so far in both first- and second-line metastatic disease provides a compelling rationale for advancing daraxonrasib into the adjuvant setting. And Slide 15 shows our Phase III trial design for RASolute 304 in perioperative therapy. We plan to evaluate approximately 500 patients after surgical resection and 4 months or more of perioperative therapy with the local standard of care, either FOLFIRINOX or gemcitabine, capecitabine administered before and/or after surgery.

Patients will be randomized to either observation or daraxonrasib monotherapy 300 milligrams daily for 2 years. The primary endpoint will be disease-free survival with secondary endpoints of overall survival and safety. We have initiated this trial and site activation is currently underway. I'll also touch briefly on zoldonrasib, our covalent RAS(ON) G12D-selective inhibitor in pancreatic cancer. zoldonrasib has demonstrated compelling clinical profile with encouraging antitumor activity and a particularly favorable safety tolerability profile.

With this differentiated profile, we believe zoldonrasib has high potential to contribute as a key component of a combination therapy in first-line PDAC with current standard of care chemotherapy and/or with daraxonrasib as a RAS(ON) inhibitor doublet. The potential for this doublet was featured at last month's triple meeting, where new preclinical data demonstrated that the combination of zoldonrasib with daraxonrasib can maximally inhibit RAS G12D and improve both the depth and durability of response. We expect to initiate our first zoldonrasib combination registrational trial in first-line metastatic PDAC in the first half of 2026. We look forward to share the 12D details and additional supporting data around that time frame.

I'll now return the call to our CEO, Mark.

Mark Goldsmith
CEO, President & Chairman

Thank you, Wei. Following closely behind pancreatic cancer, our non-small cell lung cancer clinical program remains an area of strategic priority, and we are progressing well in our efforts. Focusing first on daraxonrasib, the RASolve 301 registrational trial studying daraxonrasib versus docetaxel in previously treated patients with RAS-mutant non-small cell lung cancer continues to enroll patients across sites in the U.S. and is now also enrolling in Europe and Japan.

We also continue advancing plans to initiate a registrational trial in the first-line metastatic setting in 2026 evaluating daraxonrasib in combination with pembrolizumab and chemotherapy, and we expect to disclose study details around the time of initiation. As a reminder, this plan was based on the encouraging initial data we presented in May showing the combination of daraxonrasib with pembrolizumab with or without chemotherapy was well tolerated and demonstrated encouraging early antitumor activity.

In the G12C non-small cell lung cancer space, we continue to make progress with elironrasib, our RAS(ON) G12C inhibitor. Last month, at the Triple Meeting, we presented encouraging monotherapy data in heavily pretreated patients with G12C non-small cell lung cancer who had received a median of 3 prior lines of therapy, including treatment with a G12C(OFF) inhibitor. As shown on Slide 22, elironrasib demonstrated a confirmed objective response rate of 42%, a disease control rate of 79% and a median duration of response of 11.2 months.

On Slide 23, the median progression-free survival was 6.2 months in these heavily pretreated patients. While the median overall survival had not yet been reached, 62% of patients were alive at 12 months. We are encouraged by the strength of these data in late-line KRAS G12C(OFF) inhibitor experienced patients and continue to expand enrollment in this and other elironrasib monotherapy and combination studies while exploring a number of options for continued development of this differentiated RAS(ON) G12C selective inhibitor.

Regarding zoldonrasib in lung cancer, we are evaluating a Phase I monotherapy expansion cohort of patients with previously treated non-small cell lung cancer as well as exploring combination regimens, including zoldonrasib with pembrolizumab and zoldonrasib with daraxonrasib. In addition to plans mentioned earlier to initiate a registrational trial for a zoldonrasib combination in patients with first-line metastatic pancreatic cancer in the first half of 2026, we expect to initiate one or more additional pivotal combination trials in 2026 that incorporate either zoldonrasib or elironrasib.

We also continue to advance RMC-5127, an oral tri-complex RAS(ON) G12V-selective inhibitor. As a reminder, approximately 48,000 patients are diagnosed with the KRAS G12V mutant cancer in the U.S. each year, including non-small cell lung cancer and gastrointestinal cancers, such as pancreatic and colorectal. RMC-5127 has been shown to induce deep and durable regressions in preclinical models, and it has been advancing toward clinical development. We are on track to initiate the planned first-in-human trial in Q1 2026.

Based on the progress we've made across our 3 clinical stage assets, we are confident in the potential of our RAS(ON) inhibitor portfolio to change the standards of care across pancreatic, lung and colorectal cancers. We also have several discovery and clinical collaborations designed to expand the range of treatment strategies we can bring to bear for patients with RAS-addicted cancers. These collaborations enable us to explore diverse combinations of our RAS(ON) inhibitors with inhibitors of novel disease targets, including vopimetostat, a PRMT5 inhibitor under our agreement with Tango Therapeutics and ivonescimab, a bispecific PD-1/VEGF inhibitor, under an agreement with Summit Therapeutics.

With our rich promising clinical and preclinical pipeline, we continue making investments to scale our organization to meet the extraordinary range of opportunities it affords. In support of this work, we've made new key appointments across late-stage functions. In our R&D organization, we announced that Dr. Alan Sandler joined RevMed as our new Chief Development Officer. As an accomplished leader in oncology with a strong track record in cancer drug development, Alan brings valuable insights and expertise to our organization.

We likewise expanded and strengthened our global and regional commercialization capabilities with additional appointments across our commercialization functions, including 2 key regional leaders. Alicia Gardner was appointed Senior Vice President and General Manager of the U.S. region, and Gerwin Winter recently joined RevMed as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the European region.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Jack Anders to summarize our third quarter financial results.

Jack Anders
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Mark. We ended the third quarter of 2025 with $1.93 billion in cash and investments. This balance includes the receipt of the first royalty monetization tranche of $250 million in June 2025 from our partnership with Royalty Pharma, and there remains an additional $1.75 billion in future committed capital under this arrangement.

Turning to expenses. R&D expenses for the third quarter of 2025 were $262.5 million compared to $151.8 million for the third quarter of 2024. The increase in R&D expenses was primarily due to increases in clinical trial-related expenses and manufacturing expenses for our 3 clinical stage programs, with daraxonrasib being the largest driver of the increase given the ongoing Phase III trials. Personnel-related expenses and stock-based compensation expense also increased in 2025 due to additional headcount.

G&A expenses for the third quarter of 2025 were $52.8 million compared to $24.0 million for the third quarter of 2024. The increase in G&A expenses was primarily due to increases in personnel-related expenses and stock-based compensation expense associated with additional headcount, increased commercial preparation activities and increased legal expenses. Net loss for the third quarter of 2025 was $305.2 million compared to $156.3 million for the third quarter of 2024.

The increase in net loss was primarily driven by higher operating expenses. We are reiterating our 2025 financial guidance and expect projected full year 2025 GAAP net loss to be between $1.03 billion and $1.09 billion, which includes estimated noncash stock-based compensation expense between $115 million and $130 million. That concludes the financial update.

I will now turn the call back over to Mark.

Mark Goldsmith
CEO, President & Chairman

Thank you, Jack. We are highly encouraged by continuing momentum as we seek to build the leading global targeted medicines franchise for patients living with RAS-addicted cancers. We believe our strong financial position, expansive development plans for our compelling pipeline assets and global commercialization ambitions will allow us to establish new global standards of care. We've made great progress across our pancreatic and lung cancer clinical programs and continue to generate encouraging data that informs our plans in colorectal cancer.

Underpinning the passion and drive at RevMed is our collective commitment to patients. November is recognized globally as both Pancreatic Cancer Awareness Month and Lung Cancer Awareness Month, which align with 2 highly visible cornerstones of the clinical development efforts by our organization. We have expanded our partnerships with the advocacy community to better understand the dynamics that affect the patient's experience with RAS-driven cancers. Insights from these engagements will continue supporting our development of patient-friendly clinical protocols, access solutions and educational initiatives.

We hope you will join us in supporting the high-impact work by advocacy organizations as they seek to improve outcomes for patients through educational resources, support and research. Before closing, I'd like to acknowledge the continued support of our patients and caregivers, clinical investigators, scientific and business collaborators, advisers, shareholders and importantly, the remarkable team of revolutionaries who drive exciting steps forward on behalf of patients. This concludes our prepared remarks, and I'll now turn the call over to the operator for the Q&A session.