Shake Shack Inc. (SHAK) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 30, 2025 8:00 AM EDT

Company Participants

Alison Sternberg - Head of Investor Relations
Robert Lynch - CEO & Director
Katherine Fogertey - Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Hyun Jin Cho - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Michael Tamas - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Brian Vaccaro - CGS International
Sharon Zackfia - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Jake Bartlett - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Andrew Barish - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Greetings. Welcome to Shake Shack's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the conference over to Alison Sternberg, Head of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Alison Sternberg
Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Joining me for Shake Shack's conference call is our CEO, Rob Lynch; and CFO, Katie Fogertey.

During today's call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures are available in our earnings release and the financial details section of our shareholder letter.

Some of today's statements may be forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K filed on February 21, 2025, and our other SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements if our views change. By now, you should have access to our third quarter 2025 shareholder letter which can be found at investor.shakeshack.com in the Quarterly Results section, or as an exhibit to our 8-K for the quarter.

I will now turn the call over to Rob.

Robert Lynch
CEO & Director

Thanks, Alison, and good morning, everyone. We are extremely proud of our third quarter results, which showcase the important foundational work we've been doing to position ourselves for growth in the achievement of our long-term goals. Despite the strength of the outstanding quarter, we will not be complacent. Our focus remains to build a resilient long-term business, one that's not defined by any single quarter. We are making the necessary strategic investments today that set us up for long-term success. This means continuing to prioritize initiatives that strengthen our foundation and support sustainable growth.

We have been executing with purpose against the deliberate strategy inspired by our mission to deliver enlightened hospitality to our team members and guests. Collectively, our efforts have resulted in stronger team retention, better guest service, operational improvements and productivity, a steady cadence of culinary innovation and the foundation of a brand marketing model.

The engine behind our success in the heart of our brand is our team. We have assembled an incredible group of talent who bring a wealth of experience from both inside and outside the company. Our external hires come from well-established multiunit organizations where they have learned how to implement best practices that can help us as we continue to scale. And we are equipping our managers with tools to develop high-performing teams from within that are building a culture of hospitality, productivity and excellence. It's no surprise to us that we are seeing a reduction in turnover, leading to more tenured, higher-skilled hourly team members, which, in turn, is having a direct impact on the productivity of our labor in our Shacks.

We're also building a brand marketing model. We recently announced that we appointed Michael Fanuele as Chief Brand Officer. In this role, he will oversee advertising, paid media and insights and analytics, working in close collaboration with the broader team to advance our marketing strategy and steward our brand in the marketplace. Michael has been supporting our team as a consultant since earlier this year, where he played a pivotal role in helping to build our strategic brand positioning and in making the selection of our new creative agency partner.

We're extremely excited to take this next step in evolving our marketing model, which we believe is a critical component for us to build an enduring and powerful comp engine for growth. Michael's creativity, experience and leadership will help us continue to build demand for our culinary innovation, optimize our media investments and strengthen the Shake Shack brand.

Over the past year, we have made important strides in improving operations, and I want to spend some time walking everyone through what we are seeing. I'm incredibly thankful to our operations team and our support center for all the work that they have done to advance our business. This year has been an important year across our operations as we establish new practices that will help us scale our business with hospitality, efficiency and excellence. While we do not report this way, we recognize that many in the industry analyze our cost trends on a per operating week basis. We are aware of the fact that we are currently operating with fewer labor hours than we used to, and that our labor costs on an absolute dollar basis per operating week are down, however, still high relative to the fast casual industry.

Our historical labor model and the execution of that model was not well positioned to achieve the operating excellence that we need to deliver on our aspirations. In fact, the reduction in hours necessary to operate our Shacks with excellence has improved our ability to serve our guests because we are using those hours in a more productive way. We will continue to optimize our operations and get even more efficient in areas where we're simply overstaffed, while at the same time focusing on and delivering on better hospitality.

As we have discussed over the course of 2025, we implemented a new labor model that is an activity-based labor model moving off of the sales-based labor model. We also took a hard look at how we were deploying the hours that our Shacks were allocated and streamlined a lot in the service of the guest experience. We have built a disciplined approach and our Shack leaders are showing real accountability and using the tools and processes provided to attain our labor goals. I am pleased to share with you that nearly all of our Shacks met or beat labor targets in the third quarter. This is a meaningful improvement versus last year where approximately half of our Shacks met their labor targets. We are doing a better job of supporting our managers with strong above store leadership, data and analytics, and recruiting and training tools as they work to optimize the operations of their restaurants and deliver on their goals.

But our work is not done. Team members are at the heart of everything we do and the lifeblood of our company. One of the things that I'm most proud of is how much longer we are seeing our team members stay with us. We believe this improvement reflects our ongoing focus on creating an environment where team members can grow and succeed. We have included retention as a key metric on our operator scorecard, and our leaders are focused on training and development to help build a more tenured team. We are seeing improved throughput across all dayparts, including peak, from our team members that have more experience and tenure. This is not surprising as we make many items fresh from scratch and there's a natural and longer learning curve to our process versus traditional fast food. Simply put, the more experience our team has the better they can execute against our operational model.

Our top priority is guest satisfaction. We will continue to seek out ways to help our team members become more productive, that it won't come at the expense of guest and team member satisfaction. The evidence of that commitment can be found in our improvement in operating metrics, which we measure as a way to hold ourselves accountable for our North Star, our guests.

At Shake Shack, we cook our food to order. That is a big part of why it tastes so good. I am proud that our speed of service has improved from approximately 7 minutes in 2023, to now approximately 5 minutes and 50 seconds. We are going to continue to get even better here. Our guest satisfaction scores across meal taste, cleanliness of our Shacks and likelihood to return has all improved. And finally, with our optimized deployment, we are seeing higher throughput in all dayparts versus last year.

In addition to our work in operations, we're also driving improvements across our supply chain, and we are just starting to see the benefits from this. We have identified a long runway of opportunities ahead including, firstly, we are diversifying our supplier base, making sure that we have the right partners and enough partners to mitigate business risk and optimize costs. Second, we are diversifying our supplier footprint and optimizing logistics. Our supplier geography needs to grow as we grow. We're doing a lot of work to reduce time and miles from our suppliers to our distributors and to our Shacks. Lastly, we continue to invest in technologies that support our supply chain department in the critical functions as we scale.

As we continue to improve our supply chain, we will also continue to prioritize product quality and innovation, as we have onboarded additional suppliers across several key categories we're making sure that we can continue to procure high-quality ingredients. The work we are doing today in our operations and supply chain is also critical to helping us address a volatile beef market as we expect to face mid-teens beef inflation in the second half of 2025. Going forward, planned savings in our supply chain and continued improvements in operations afford us the opportunity to offset a meaningful part of beef inflation without having to take outsized price and still expanding our restaurant margins. This hasn't been the case historically for Shake Shack.

Another exciting part of our evolution is on the equipment side, where we are actively testing multiple solutions designed to make our Shacks easier to operate with an emphasis on improving product quality, consistency and speed. We plan to roll out the first of these solutions towards the end of the year, starting with new fry holding equipment that will allow us to serve crispier hotter fries every day. There is a lot more to come over the course of 2026 and beyond.

We are also investing heavily in our technology infrastructure, particularly our kiosk and digital channels, which will continue to be critical parts of our comp sales growth. In our kiosks and our digital platforms, we are driving positive check growth from improved merchandising of our core menu. As I've stated in the past, we are focused on delivering enlightened hospitality to our guests. Big part of that long-term commitment will be a strong loyalty platform, which we are working to deliver in 2026. As we build this best-in-class loyalty platform, we are currently leveraging our app with value and frequency offers. We have seen success from these initiatives and are tracking of approximately 50% more app downloads this year than last. This is important to our long-term growth as our app guests have higher frequency and lifetime value than our nondigital guests.

At the end of the day, we know what really excites our guests is our culinary innovation. Our made-to-order model affords us the ability to deliver food that other QSRs and even fast casual concepts cannot easily replicate. Culinary innovation has always been a part of our fine dining heritage and DNA, but the cadence of innovation in place now is unprecedented for us. Our Dubai Chocolate Shake was a powerful illustration. Dubai was highly incremental and drove a positive impact on all key brand measures with the largest brand perception gains on ingredient quality and innovation.

Beverage is obviously an important and growing segment within our industry. We have always offered high-quality, innovative teas and lemonades alongside of our world-famous custard shakes. Our goal is to significantly grow our beverage business across soft drinks, teas and lemonades, and to simply own the shake innovation space. With inspiration drawn from global recipes, seasonal occasions, unique textural elements and flavor trends.

Following on the success of our Dubai Shake, we've established a shake innovation pipeline with exciting crackable shake offerings as a plus up to our typical Shake LTO lineup. We're also continuing to fuel our pipeline of new sizes with fried pickles and onion rings and we are seeing strong attachment rate. But our crinkle cut fries continue to be the crown jewel of our sides platform. And alongside our new hot holding equipment, we are about to launch new procedures that will make them crispier, hotter and more consistently seasoned, making them the best we've ever served.

We are also going to continue to innovate across burgers and sandwiches. This includes our summer barbecue menu, which we launched in mid-Q2, and our limited time French Onion Soup Burger that launched in September. We're pushing the envelope and currently have a French dip Angus steak sandwich and a baby back rib sandwich in test markets. These innovations are part of our ongoing strategy to balance premium sandwich offerings with value platform so that we can continue to drive traffic growth. Once again, our made-to-order model affords us the culinary flexibility to make things that no one else can deliver with the type of premium quality that our guests have come to expect from Shake Shack.

While we're focused on developing traffic-driving LTO innovation, we're also continuing to invest in our core menu. These include fry improvements mentioned earlier, new chicken bites, which deliver a more consistent guest experience, and rolling out an improved cheese sauce for our fries that increases cheese coverage and has performed much better in test than our current offering. Our culinary innovation, as well as improvements to our core menu and operations are enabling us to serve our guests better and has prepared us to amplify our brand through new advertising and paid media.

In the third quarter, we invested in paid media at scale for the first time. We shared with you last quarter that we were starting to make some investments in that capability, and I'm happy to report that we are delivering results while learning a lot. We invested media behind Dubai Chocolate Shake as well as our dollar soda and app-only promotion, and these investments are a reason why we are delivering the sales growth that we shared with you today. Our brand positioning work is now complete, and we will launch new advertising starting later this quarter. We are working with one of the most awarded creative agencies in the world to bring our brand story to life through advertising throughout 2026.

Turning to development. We have significant white space to open new Shacks in the U.S. and around the world, and we are doing so at lower costs in spite of inflation. As part of our development work, we are also focused on new kitchen prototypes and equipment that could have a significant impact on improving our throughput and quality. This year, we are on track to open our largest class of company-operated Shacks. And next year, we expect to open at least 55 to 60 Shacks as we accelerate our rate of new Shack growth, and continue to build our strong pipeline of Shacks to come.

Turning to our licensing business. With 23 new store openings as of Q3, we are well on our way to 35 to 40 openings this year, and we plan on opening 40 to 45 more in 2026. This business is healthy and growing. Our existing markets are performing better than expected despite global macro headwinds with strength coming from new openings in the U.S., Canada, Israel and Turkey. This year, we have announced 4 new license partnerships, most recently with Union Mak in Hawaii to bring the Shake Shack experience to the Aloha state. We are building great momentum in the license business, and there is much more to come.

As we reflect on the most recent quarter and what is to come, Q3 was an example of our sales model at work. Multiple great LTOs in Dubai Chocolate Shake and summer barbecue and an in-app value message with support from advertising and media complemented by a healthy digital business that collectively drove strong traffic in a tough environment.

Now going to October. Our sales trends, although positive, were not consistent with what we saw in the third quarter. Macro headwinds to the industry did intensify and we are lapping one of the most iconic LTOs in our history, Black Truffle. We continue to invest in advertising and media to support the business. However, our French Onion Burger LTO, while loved by the media, has not been as accretive to traffic or check as was the case for our LTOs in Q3. After 3 weeks of analyzing the data, we pivoted and shifted support to our in-app value platforms. Over the last week, our in-app traffic is up 85%, and our overall traffic has seen over a 400 basis point change.

Looking ahead, we will need to deliver newsworthy LTOs complemented by a strong value platform and a healthy app and loyalty platform, as well as a strong delivery business. That is exactly what we expect from the balance of Q4 and our plan for 2026. We will also need to mitigate the continued traffic declines in the DC and New York Metro, which we believe to be macro in nature with outpaced growth in other regions.

I am really proud of the progress the team has made on the plan that we laid out at the beginning of 2025. And the quarterly results show that we are focused on the right strategic priorities moving forward despite the macro challenges. We have a long way to go to realize our full potential, but the progress is certainly heartening, and will allow us the opportunity to continue to gain share against the challenging industry backdrop.

And with that, I'll turn it to Katie for more details on the quarter.

Katherine Fogertey
Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Rob, and good morning, everyone. We are pleased with the results of our third quarter that marks the 19th consecutive quarter of positive same-Shack sales growth, along with strong restaurant level and adjusted EBITDA margins, and double-digit adjusted EBITDA growth. Considering the macro environment, we feel especially proud of our results that reflect solid momentum and execution across both our company-operated and licensed businesses.

We grew total revenue by 15.9% year-over-year to $367.4 million, led by strong new Shack openings and growth in our comp Shack base. We grew licensing revenue by 21.1% year-over-year to approximately $14.6 million, and license sales by 15% to $218.7 million. As we opened 7 licensed Shacks in the quarter and saw broad-based strength across most of our regions. In our company-operated business, we grew Shack sales by 15.7% year-over-year to $352.8 million. We opened 13 new Shacks in the quarter, bringing the total as of the end of the third quarter to 30 openings, well on our way to opening our largest class on record, and we have plans to open 55 to 60 new Shacks in 2026.

We grew average weekly sales by 2.6% year-over-year to $78,000. We delivered 4.9% positive same-Shack sales growth that represents a 390 basis point improvement from our first half 2025 run rate. This acceleration was led by improved traffic from initiatives that Rob described earlier in his remarks. We grew traffic by positive 1.3% in the quarter and all months saw positive traffic growth.

We had positive comps in traffic in nearly all of our regions. However, we continue to see macro pressures in New York Metro and Washington, D.C. that are weighing on our overall results. New York Metro and D.C. represent over 1/4 of our sales, and we have been experiencing a higher degree of macro pressures in these regions than many industry peers given our footprint today. So a challenging macro backdrop here continues to have an outsized impact on our overall performance.

But in spite of those pressures in a few of our markets, we still delivered nearly 5% in same-Shack sales growth with positive traffic. And that's really a testament to our strong success in other markets we're actively growing our footprint and scaling. In fact, we drove 7% to 8% comps in the South, West and the Midwest, with double-digit comps in San Francisco, Orlando, Dallas and Denver among a lot of other major metros. As our development pipeline has significant tilt away from growing in New York City and D.C., I am optimistic that over time, we can lessen the impact that 1 or 2 markets with specific pressures can have on our overall trends.

And Shack menu price was up approximately 2% and blended across all channels up approximately 4%. We took approximately 2% in menu price in the quarter to help offset the cost pressures from the mid-teens percent price increase in the beef market, and rolled off last year's nearly 2% price increase in October. With this, we will exit the year with approximately 3% menu price. We drove 1.4% of positive mix, led by kiosk merchandising efforts. Items per Shack declined 1.6%, consistent with our trends last quarter.

Turning to restaurant-level profitability. We generated $80.6 million of restaurant-level profit, reaching 22.8% of Shack sales, a 180 basis point improvement over last year. Overall, the strong performance by our operators and the advancement of our strategic initiatives underscores the momentum we've built and our commitment to sustainable margin expansion over time, all while delivering on better guest metrics that Rob outlined earlier.

Food and paper costs were $103.5 million, or 29.3% of Shack sales, up 110 basis points versus last year. The increase was primarily driven by mid-teens inflation in premium beef, which remains the largest part of our commodity basket. Historic low supply and sustained demand are contributing to a volatility in this category, and we expect elevated beef costs to persist through year-end and into next year.

In the third quarter, our blended food and paper inflation after factoring in our cost savings was in the mid-single digits range. As we shared in our shareholder letter, while we are planning for these costs to still be up mid-teens percent year-over-year in the fourth quarter, we anticipate only a low single-digit net impact on food and paper costs. This is an improvement from the levels we showed in the third quarter, and this is due to the positive impact from our ongoing supply chain strategies. We expect cost savings from our supply chain to grow and be even more impactful in 2026.

Labor and related expenses were $88 million or 24.9% of Shack sales, down 310 basis points year-over-year, reflecting continued operational efficiencies, improved retention and gains in our throughput. Other operating expenses came in at $53.8 million, or 15.2% of Shack sales, up 30 basis points year-over-year. This increase was primarily driven by higher digital sales. Occupancy and related expenses were $27 million or 7.7% of Shack sales, flat year-over-year.

G&A was $44.4 million, or 12.1% of total revenue, and up 24.3% year-over-year as we made incremental marketing and people investments to support our growth. Equity-based compensation was $4.4 million, up 6.4% year-over-year, with $3.9 million in G&A. Preopening costs were $4.6 million, up 26.3% year-over-year as we opened 13 new Shacks and prepare for a strong opening schedule in the fourth quarter and into next year. We have approximately 30 Shacks under construction today.

We grew adjusted EBITDA by 18.2% year-over-year to $54.1 million, or 14.7% of total revenue, a 30 basis point improvement compared to last year. Depreciation and amortization expense was $27.1 million. Net income attributable to Shake Shack, Inc. was $12.5 million or $0.30 per diluted share. Adjusted pro forma net income was $15.9 million or $0.36 per fully exchanged and diluted share. Our GAAP tax rate was 35.2%, and our adjusted pro forma tax rate, excluding the tax impact of equity-based compensation, was 25.1%.

Our balance sheet remains strong with $357.8 million in cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter. This is up approximately $47 million year-over-year, and $21 million sequentially. We grew operating cash flow by 50% year-over-year to $63 million. We invested $39 million in CapEx to support the strong opening calendar, and are on track to deliver another approximate 10% reduction in our build cost this year.

I'm going to now provide our guidance for the fourth quarter and the implications for our fiscal 2025 guidance. Our outlook assumes no major changes to the macro or geopolitical environment. Additionally, our fiscal 2025 includes a 53rd week. Due to the calendar impact from the 53rd week, the Christmas holiday closure falls outside of our comp measurement period this year, resulting in an extra sales day in our fourth quarter and full year comps. Our fourth quarter 2025 guidance, we expect system-wide unit openings of 27 to 37, with 15 to 20 company-operated and 12 to 17 licensed. Total revenue of $406 million to $412 million with same-Shack sales up low single digits year-over-year, and license revenue of $15.4 million to $15.7 million. Restaurant level profit margin of 23.3% to 23.8%.

For the full year 2025, we expect total revenue of approximately $1.45 billion, up approximately 16% year-over-year, with same-Shack sales up low single digits year-over-year and license revenue of $54.1 million to $54.5 million. Restaurant level profit margin of approximately 22.7% to 23%, G&A to be approximately 12.3% to 12.5% of total revenue, equity-based compensation expense of $20 million, preopening costs of $19 million, net income of $50 million to $60 million, and adjusted EBITDA of $210 million to $215 million, reflecting the impact from the macro headwinds and increased marketing investment. Please see our shareholder letter for the full details on our fiscal 2025 guidance.

Additionally, as a housekeeping note, next year, we are moving to a guidance framework that better conforms with general industry practice, and we look forward to sharing this with you when we provide our fiscal 2026 outlook.

Thank you for your time. And with that, I'll turn it back to Rob.

Robert Lynch
CEO & Director

Thank you, Katie. I want to thank our team again for their hard work and passion for Shake Shack, which is the engine behind our strong third quarter performance and our ability to achieve our long-term goals. Thank you to everyone on the call today and for your interest in our company.

And with that, operator, please open up the call for questions.

