SLM Corporation (SLM) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 22, 2026 5:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Kate deLacy - Senior Director & Head of Investor Relations
Jonathan Witter - CEO & Director
Peter Graham - Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer

Conference Call Participants

Caroline Latta - BofA Securities, Research Division
Giuliano Anderes-Bologna - Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division
Terry Ma - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Jon Arfstrom - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Melissa Wedel - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to the Sallie Mae Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Kate deLacy, Senior Director and Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Kate deLacy
Senior Director & Head of Investor Relations

Thank you, Chloe. Good evening, and welcome to Sallie Mae's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Call. It is my pleasure to be here today with Jon Witter, our CEO; Pete Graham, our CFO; and Melissa Bronaugh, Managing Vice President of Strategic Finance. After the prepared remarks, we will open the call for questions.

Before we begin, keep in mind our discussion will contain predictions, expectations and forward-looking statements. Actual results in the future may be materially different from those discussed here due to a variety of factors. Listeners should refer to the discussion of those factors in the company's Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC. For Sallie Mae, these factors include, among others, results of operations, financial conditions and/or cash flow as well as any potential impact of various external factors on our business.

Additionally, this discussion in the earnings presentation include non-GAAP financial information, including non-GAAP delinquencies, including strategic partnerships in repayment, non-GAAP reserve rates, including strategic partnership, warehouse loans and non-GAAP NCOs as a percentage of average loans and repayment. All non-GAAP financial information should be considered as supplemental to, not a substitute for or superior to the financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide users of our financial information with useful supplemental information that enable a better comparison of the company's performance across periods. There are many limitations related to the use of these non-GAAP financial measures and their nearest GAAP equivalents.

For example, the company's descriptions of non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the non-GAAP measures used by other companies. For descriptions of the non-GAAP financial information included herein and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, please refer to the appendix to the earnings presentation beginning on Slide 13. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any predictions, expectations or forward-looking statements, including non-GAAP forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after today, Thursday, January 22, 2026. Thank you. And now I'll turn the call over to Jon.

Jonathan Witter
CEO & Director

Thank you, Kate and Chloe. Good evening, everyone. Thank you for joining us to discuss Sallie Mae's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 results. I'm pleased to report on a successful year and discuss our strong outlook for 2026. Overall, the private student lending sector remains robust and is positioned for further success. College enrollment and specifically enrollment trends for many of our largest Tier 1 schools are up, indicating students and parents continue to see the value of higher education. Our cosigner rates for new originations have also increased, indicating parents and loved ones are willing to co-invest in the education for their students.

Recognizing that some recent graduates are feeling the impact of current economic uncertainty and technological change, unemployment rates for recent graduates are still comparatively low and most are finding gainful employment within 6 months of graduation. As AI transforms the professional landscape, we believe education will be even more important as students acquire the skills necessary to remain competitive in the future. Undoubtedly, schools and programs will evolve, creating new areas of study to meet those needs.

We look forward to supporting our school partners and students throughout this evolution. We are excited about the opportunity created by the recent federal student lending reforms. These changes should reduce the likelihood of students and families taking on unsustainable levels of student debt. These reforms also create the opportunity for us to help more students and families. We believe that when fully phased in, PLUS reform could contribute an estimated $5 billion in annual originations for Sallie Mae representing approximately 70% originations growth over 2025.

In 2025, Sallie Mae delivered our inaugural private credit strategic partnership. This innovative first-of-its-kind agreement combines the more predictable earnings profile of our bank with the capital efficiency and risk transfer benefits of our loan sale program. We believe the economic value of this partnership is comparable or superior to other funding models. This arrangement includes no clawbacks and the supplemental fee which represents the smallest portion of the overall economics is tied to clear, reasonably achievable return thresholds.

In addition to the strategic progress, we also delivered well against our guidance for the year. GAAP diluted EPS in the fourth quarter was $1.12, and our full year GAAP diluted EPS was $3.46 compared to $2.68 in 2024. Private education loan originations for the fourth quarter of 2025 were $1.02 billion. And for the full year, we originated $7.4 billion of private education loans, 6% over 2024 and at the higher end of our revised full year guidance. Net charge-offs for our private education loan portfolio were $98 million in the fourth quarter of 2025 and $346 million for the full year representing 2.15% of average private education loans in repayment, which is down 4 basis points from the full year of 2024. Pete will now take you through some additional highlights. Pete?

Peter Graham
Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer

Thank you, Jon. Good evening, everyone. We continued our capital return strategy in the fourth quarter repurchasing 3.8 million shares for $106 million for a total of 12.8 million shares for $373 million over the full year 2025. Since January 1, 2020, we've reduced the shares outstanding by over 55% at an average price of $16.93. Our prior share repurchase authorization was nearing completion. And tonight, we are announcing a new 2-year $500 million authorization. Our net interest margin was 5.21% for the quarter, 29 basis points higher than the prior year period and 5.24% for the full year, up 5 basis points year-over-year. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of our asset and liability management strategies, which delivered NIM in the low to mid-5% range.

In the fourth quarter of 2025 we recorded a $19 million negative provision for credit losses, largely driven by the release of reserves tied to the $1 billion seasoned loan portfolio sale and a selection of a portion of the 2025 peak season originations for sale to the KKR strategic partnership. In our Investor Forum last month, we noted that as our updated strategy begins to scale, key performance metrics would begin to shift. As part of our evolved strategy, we are no longer exclusively selling portions of our seasoned loan portfolio.

For the first time, we are also selling newly originated loans. This will change the composition of our bank-owned loan portfolio. Additionally, we are selecting each quarter a representative portion of new originations and warehousing them for sale in the subsequent quarter. As a result, we expect a portion of our new originations each quarter to be designated as held for sale. As many of our credit metrics are calculated using only loans held for investment, or include a portion of newly originated loans as part of their calculation. This change in loans held strategy has begun to influence a number of reported metrics.

To support your analysis and ensure transparency, we have added an appendix beginning on Page 13 of the earnings presentation furnished with our release this evening, outlining how these metrics have begun to shift and providing the clarity needed to establish refreshed baselines for forward-looking models. Importantly, the shift in these metrics is primarily driven by calculation mechanics rather than a change in the underlying performance of the loans in our portfolio. It's important to note certain information referenced tonight and provided in the earnings presentation includes non-GAAP metrics. We believe are useful to understanding the comparative performance of our portfolio. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP to GAAP metrics can be found in the appendix to the earnings presentation on Pages 18 and 19.

With that foundation in place, we can turn to the discussion of our credit metrics. The total allowance as a percentage of the private education loan exposure, which we refer to as the reserve rate was 6% at the end of 2025, up from 5.93% in the previous quarter and 5.83% at the end of 2024. As shown on Page 15 of the earnings presentation when adjusting for the change in loans held strategy, the non-GAAP reserve rate would have been 5.92%. Net charge-offs for our private education loan portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2025 were 2.42% of average loans and repayment compared to 2.38% in the year ago quarter.

As shown on Page 16 of our earnings presentation, when adjusting for the change in loans held strategy, the non-GAAP net charge-off rate would have been 2.40%. Private education loans delinquent 30 days or more represented 4% of loans and repayment as of the end of the year, unchanged from the third quarter and up from 3.7% at the end of 2024. Adjusting for the change in loans held strategy, the non-GAAP delinquency rate would have been 3.88% as shown on Page 17 of the presentation. Over the second half of 2025, we saw an increase in early-stage delinquencies, prompting questions whether that was a precursor to higher charge-offs.

As we noted then and continue to believe now volatility in early-stage delinquency is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future net charge offs. As shown on Page 10 of the earnings presentation, an analysis of the relationship between annualized 30-day plus delinquency and net charge-off rates shows a 12 percentage point improvement in the link ratio since 2022, demonstrating the diminishing connection between the 2 metrics. We believe this is driven at least in part by improvements in our collections effectiveness.

Moreover, late-stage delinquencies and roll rates have remained stable, consistent with our expectation that most early-stage delinquencies self-care. As discussed for several quarters, our expanded loan modification volumes are nearing the point of being fully seasoned. And we will begin to see borrowers whose loans were modified under the expanded loss mitigation programs at the end of 2023 exiting these programs throughout 2026. While longer-term performance will become clearer throughout the upcoming year, we continue to be pleased by the results we are seeing from borrowers currently enrolled in these programs.

As you can see on Page 11 of the earnings presentation, more than 80% of these borrowers successfully completed their first 6 payments. Additionally, close to 75% of borrowers who are enrolled -- who enrolled in a loan modification during the fourth quarter of 2023 are current at the end of 2025, representing over 24 months of positive payment. This performance is consistent with what we are seeing in other modification cohorts.

Noninterest expenses for the full year were $659 million compared to $642 million in 2024 a modest 2.6% increase year-over-year and below the midpoint of our guidance. We're pleased with this outcome, which reflects our disciplined expense management, continued focus on efficiency. This discipline enabled us to deliver an efficiency ratio of 33.2% in 2025. And finally, our liquidity and capital positions are solid. We ended the quarter with liquidity of 18.6% of total assets. At the end of the fourth quarter, total risk-based capital was 12.4% and common equity Tier 1 capital was 11.1%. We believe we are well positioned to grow our business and continue to return capital to shareholders. I'll now turn the call back to Jon.

Jonathan Witter
CEO & Director

Thanks, Pete. Let me conclude with a discussion of our 2026 guidance and provide some additional context on potential future trends. 2026 presents an exciting opportunity for our company to serve more students and families. In the second half of the year, we expect that the first wave of students subject to the new PLUS caps will begin their undergraduate and graduate journeys. This impact will be relatively smaller in the first year of phase-in nonetheless, we expect full year 2026 private education loan origination growth of 12% to 14%. We believe this is an incredibly attractive opportunity for our company and we need to invest ahead of the anticipated volume.

As such, expected noninterest expenses for full year of 2026 will be between $750 million and $780 million. Driving this year-over-year increase are 3 factors. Approximately 20% is growth associated with cost increases tied to normal market conditions. Approximately 40% of the increase reflects onetime investments in product enhancements, refined credit models and other strategic enablers. And the remainder stems from higher marketing and acquisition costs required to capture the additional plus related volume. We do not expect this level of year-over-year expense growth to continue.

In 2027, we expect the rate of operating expense growth to be roughly half that of 2026 as the cost of growing volume is offset by efficiency gains and the sunsetting of onetime investments. Assuming our volume estimates are correct, we anticipate that we will improve our efficiency ratio each year with the goal of being back in the low 30s no later than 2030. Given the strategic and financial attractiveness of our private credit partnership business, we expect to grow that business in 2026.

As a result, we anticipate private education loan portfolio growth to be flat to slightly negative year-over-year. Beyond 2026, we expect to maintain an appropriately sized bank that continues to serve as a strategic growth engine, a funding risk mitigant and a healthy competitive alternative to our private credit partnerships. Accordingly, after 2026, we expect to grow the bank portfolio gradually by roughly 1 to 2 percentage points per year until reaching a steady state annual growth rate in the mid-single digits. To support this trajectory, we estimate that roughly 30% to 40% of our private student lending originations will flow through strategic partnerships, with additional balance sheet growth managed through seasoned portfolio loan sales.

We expect net charge-offs for our total loan portfolio will be between $345 million and $385 million. As shown on Page 16 of our presentation, we believe this is consistent with a stable credit outlook. Let me conclude with a discussion of full year diluted earnings per common share which we expect to be between $2.70 and $2.80 in 2026. This range reflects the deliberate choices we made to launch the strategic partnership in 2025 and invest aggressively to capture the PLUS opportunity. While 2026 is a critical year in our strategic journey, I'm even more excited about what comes after. While we cannot predict the future macroeconomics or other changes, if the plus TAM materializes as we have predicted, we would expect to see EPS acceleration beginning in 2027, with high teens to low 20% growth. Beyond 2027, we expect our EPS growth to remain elevated for several years as the PLUS opportunity is fully realized and our strategic partnership business grows.

In closing, we are excited about our company's future and the opportunities ahead. We believe students will continue to seek access to higher education to obtain the skills necessary to compete in the future. The PLUS reform will open the door for Sallie Mae to compete for and win business with an exciting new group of customers creating meaningful upside for future originations and then our private credit strategic partnerships business will give us a capital-efficient and risk-balanced way to fund growth while building more predictable and recurring earnings streams. Taken together, we believe these dynamics should translate to very attractive value creation opportunities for the company and for our investors. With that, Pete, let's go ahead and open up the call for some questions.

