Sandisk Corporation (SNDK) Q1 2026 Earnings Call November 6, 2025 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Ivan Donaldson - Vice President of Investor Relations
David V. Goeckeler - Chairman & CEO
Luis Visoso - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Christopher Muse - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
James Schneider - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Joseph Moore - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Mark Newman - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Karl Ackerman - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Mehdi Hosseini - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Ruplu Bhattacharya - BofA Securities, Research Division
Asiya Merchant - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Steven Fox - Fox Advisors LLC
Sreekrishnan Sankarnarayanan - TD Cowen, Research Division
Nam Hyung Kim - Arete Research Services LLP
Mark Miller - The Benchmark Company, LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and welcome to the Sandisk First Quarter Fiscal 2026 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Ivan Donaldson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Ivan Donaldson
Vice President of Investor Relations

Before we begin, please note that today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements based on management's current assumptions and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include expectations for our technology and product portfolio, our business plans and performance, market trends and opportunities and our future financial results. We assume no obligation to update these statements.

Please refer to our annual report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. We will also make reference to non-GAAP financial measures today. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures are included in written materials posted in the Investor Relations section of our website. With that, I'll turn the call over to David.

David V. Goeckeler
Chairman & CEO

Thanks, Ivan. Good afternoon and thank you for joining Sandisk's First Quarter Fiscal year 2026 Earnings Call. Sandisk delivered a strong quarter with revenue of $2.3 billion, up sequentially 21% and non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.22. We generated $448 million in adjusted free cash flow and closed the quarter in a net cash position of $91 million. As discussed in February during our Analyst Day, we are focused on growing revenue, expanding margins and generating sustainable free cash flow to create shareholder value and we are executing that plan.

Our results reflect the strong execution by the Sandisk team in an environment marked by strengthening demand across our end markets. In the first quarter, demand for our NAND products continued to outpace our supply, a dynamic we expect to persist through the end of calendar year '26 and beyond. In response, we are making strategic allocation decisions to maximize long-term value creation.

We are focused on advancing our technology road map and strengthening customer partnerships to deliver the right products to the right applications and customers. Customers are proactively seeking long-term commitments given the critical nature of our technology and to secure continued access to our products. These priorities are expected to deliver durable and attractive financial results while unlocking the strength of our broad product portfolio.

With investments in data centers and AI infrastructure expected to surpass $1 trillion by 2030, the demand for NAND storage products capable of processing large volumes of data quickly and efficiently is increasing dramatically, creating a strong tailwind for our high-capacity power-efficient SSDs enabled by our BiCS8 technology. BiCS8, which delivers industry-leading capacity, I/O performance and energy efficiency, accounted for 15% of total bits shipped and is expected to reach majority of bit production exiting fiscal year '26.

Our BiCS8 products are expected to enable us to grow our data center business while further strengthening our positioning in the edge and consumer markets. Let's dive into the first quarter results by business. Our data center business gained momentum with revenue up 26% sequentially as global hyperscaler, neocloud and OEM customers are seeking to deepen their partnership with Sandisk. Our storage-focused SSD product line, code named Stargate is growing in demand with 2 hyperscaler qualifications underway and a third hyperscaler along with a major storage OEM planned for calendar year '26.

Across the data center portfolio, we are working with 5 major hyperscale customers through active sales and strategic engagements. In edge, we are seeing positive momentum from a PC refresh cycle, aided by Windows 11 adoption and Windows 10 end of life. PC unit shipments are expected to grow low single digits with mid-single-digit growth in capacity per device in calendar years '25 and '26. Beyond PC, premium smartphones are delivering modest unit growth, supported by new model launches featuring enhanced generative AI capabilities.

Average smartphone capacity per device is expected to grow high single digits in calendar years '25 and '26. Looking ahead, we expect continued momentum in edge as device upgrades accelerate, driving increasing NAND content. Ongoing supply and demand dynamics are expected to extend the need to strategically place bits as mentioned above. As customers across data center and edge seek higher performance AI inference capabilities, demand for innovative solutions to address AI inference storage has increased interest in our high-bandwidth flash or HBF technology will deliver.

Building on the technical advisory board and ecosystem partnership with SK hynix we announced last quarter, we are actively engaging potential customers for inference applications in both data center and edge. As we enter the holiday period, we are also well positioned to capture strong seasonal demand with our refreshed consumer portfolio and significant presence across key retail and online channels. We are engaging with the gaming and creator communities to sustain our momentum. Our recently launched Memory Man campaign is creating lots of interest and excitement, strengthening brand relevance ahead of the holiday season.

Also in consumer, our partnerships with leading companies like Nintendo remains strong with solid adoption of our co-branded Switch 2 microSD Express Card, which eclipsed 900,000 units sold in fiscal Q1. We are also expanding our presence in the handheld gaming sector with the new Sandisk microSD for ROG Xbox Ally, reinforcing our position in gaming storage. Our consumer business remains a major focus for the company, driving revenue growth and attractive margin through cycle. In summary, this is a new era for Sandisk.

We have a strong balance sheet, an industry-leading product portfolio and a clear technology road map that drives organic strategic customer engagements. As we help power one of the most transformative technology megatrends of our time driven by accelerated AI proliferation, we are confident in our ability to create significant and sustainable value for our customers and shareholders. With that, I'll turn the call over to Luis to dive deeper into our financial performance and guidance.

Luis Visoso
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, David. Let's dive deeper into the quarter results. Revenue for the first quarter was $2,308 million, up 21% quarter-over-quarter and up 23% year-over-year. This compares favorably to our guidance of $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion. Bits were up mid-teens sequentially with pricing up mid-single digits. Pricing strengthened during the quarter. Higher-than-expected bit growth enabled the revenue over delivery. Before reviewing the details by market, I will share that we will be aligning the names for our end markets to match the nomenclature commonly used in the industry.

Going forward, we will use data center to refer to the business that's comprised primarily of our products for public and private cloud environments. We used to refer to this business as cloud. We'll use edge to refer to the business that serves our original equipment manufacturer and channel customers with a broad array of high-performance flash solutions across computer, mobile, gaming, automotive, virtual reality headsets and other edge devices. We used to refer to this business as clients.

We will continue to use consumer to refer to the business that contains our broad range of retail and other end user products, which capitalizes on the strength of our product brand recognition and vast point of presence around the world. In the first quarter, we saw strong sequential demand across all end markets. Edge revenue came in at $1,387 million, up 26% sequentially. Consumer revenue came in at $652 million, up 11% quarter-over-quarter and data center came in at $269 million, up 26% sequentially.

Non-GAAP gross margin for the first quarter was 29.9%, up 350 basis points quarter-over-quarter. This compares favorably to our guidance of 28.5% to 29.5%. The incremental revenue drove the higher-than-expected gross margins. In the first quarter, we incurred $61 million in start-up costs and $11 million in underutilization charges. Excluding this cost, non-GAAP gross margin would have been 33.1%. Non-GAAP operating expenses for the first quarter were $446 million, which is higher than our guidance of $415 million to $430 million.

Operating expenses were above guidance, mostly driven by higher variable compensation from the revenue over delivery versus plan. As a result, non-GAAP operating margins at 10.6% were up 530 basis points quarter-over-quarter. Non-GAAP EPS for the first quarter were $1.22, up from $0.29 in the prior quarter. This compares favorably to our guidance of $0.70 to $0.90. The non-GAAP EPS beat reflects a higher-than-expected revenue and gross margins and a more favorable tax rate.

Key GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation items include $47 million in stock-based compensation, net of taxes, which represents 2% of revenue, $9 million in separation charges and $17 million in onetime costs related to the SSDs transaction and separation from Western Digital. Moving on to the balance sheet. We closed the quarter with $1,442 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,351 million in gross debt. We achieved a net cash position approximately 6 months faster than the target shared during Investor Day in February, driven by strong cash focus in a robust market.

During the quarter, we paid an additional $500 million of our TLB and reduced our inventory days from 135 to 115 as demand exceeded supply. Moving on to free cash flow. During the quarter, we generated $448 million in adjusted free cash flow, which represents 19.4% free cash flow margin. This included $488 million cash from operations and $10 million cash received from our activities related to Flash Ventures, partially offset by $50 million invested in our back-end operation and offices.

The $10 million received from our operations related to Flash Ventures includes $337 million in gross CapEx with $107 million funded through depreciation as part of our cost of goods sold and $240 million funded from external sources, mainly subsidies and equipment leasing. Altogether, our gross capital expenditures totaled $387 million and represents 16.8% of revenue. Moving on to guidance. For the second quarter, we expect revenue between $2,550 million and $2,650 million due to double-digit price increases and mid-single-digit bit growth.

Consistent with our expectations, we anticipate demand for our products to exceed supply throughout the end of the calendar 2026. Based on current supply and demand dynamics, we believe demand for our products will exceed supply beyond that period. Our products are currently on allocation across all end markets. Recall, the third quarter is a seasonally lower volume period for our consumer business following the holidays. Our forecast for non-GAAP gross margin for the second quarter is between 41% and 43% from higher pricing and cost tailwinds.

This estimate includes an expected $30 million in start-up costs. For the second quarter, we expect non-GAAP operating expenses between $450 million and $475 million. The incremental operating expenses are to support our data center business expansion and our HBF innovation. We expect non-GAAP interest and other expense between $40 million and $45 million and non-GAAP tax expenses between $80 million and $90 million. We forecast non-GAAP EPS for the second quarter between $3 and $3.40, assuming 155 million fully diluted shares.

The higher diluted share count in the second quarter is driven by the increase in the stock price following the treasury model. We expect to generate positive free cash flow in the second quarter despite capital investments to enable the BiCS8 transition, which is expected to be our most significant node by the end of the fiscal year. Our fiscal 2026 CapEx plans remain unchanged along with the long-term strategy to grow supply in line with the market, assuming bit demand compound annual growth rate in the mid- to high teens.

Our capital allocation priorities are consistent with what we shared during Investor Day in February. Our first priority was to achieve a net cash position, which we have now accomplished through strong cash generation. Going forward, our capital allocation is unchanged, and we expect to continue to invest in the business and return cash to shareholders.

We're executing the strategies and plans that we shared with you in February, and the results are coming in as anticipated with revenue growth, margin expansion and more efficient use of assets. We remain focused on creating sustainable value for customers and shareholders with continued prudent management of the business. With that, let me turn the call back to David.

David V. Goeckeler
Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Luis. In summary, Sandisk delivered a strong start to the fiscal year, underscoring the success of our strategy to drive profitable growth, expand margins and generate sustainable free cash flow. Our solid execution amidst robust demand positions us well for continued momentum across the data center, edge and consumer markets. Our ongoing qualifications and strategic engagements with key hyperscale customers underscore the growing adoption of our high-capacity power-efficient enterprise SSDs.

As we move through the remainder of fiscal 2026, our focus remains on disciplined capital allocation, operational excellence and delivering differentiated technology that meets evolving customer needs. We are well positioned with industry-leading technology and products, healthy long-term market fundamentals, a strong balance sheet and an efficient operating model to create substantial value for our shareholders. Our technology is arriving at exactly the right time. When the market is ready, the demand is real and the opportunity to drive meaningful earnings power is just starting. With that, we will open the call for questions.