Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (TEVA) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Christopher Stevo - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & Competitive Intelligence
Richard Francis - President, CEO & Director
Eric Hughes - Executive VP of Global R&D and Chief Medical Officer
Eliyahu Kalif - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

David Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Louise Chen - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Ashwani Verma - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Jason Gerberry - BofA Securities, Research Division
Christopher Schott - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Umer Raffat - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Leszek Sulewski - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Yuchen Ding - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, and welcome to the Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Limited Q4 2025 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Alex, and I'll be coordinating today's call. [Operator Instructions] I'll now hand over to Chris Stevo, SVP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Christopher Stevo
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & Competitive Intelligence

Thank you, Alex. Good morning, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter call. Before I turn it over to our CEO, Richard Francis, I just want to remind everyone that we will be making forward-looking statements on this call. Any statements we make are only as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update those statements subsequently. And if you have any questions about our forward-looking statements, feel free to see the appropriate sections in our SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q.

With that, Richard Francis.

Richard Francis
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Chris. Good morning, good afternoon, everybody. Great to have you on the call. Also on the call with me today will be Dr. Eric Hughes, Head of R&D and Chief Medical Officer, who will be walking you through some exciting developments in our pipeline. And then Eli Kalif, my CFO, who will go through the Q4 and the full year results.

So starting with, as I always do, the Pivot to Growth strategy and the progress we've made over the last 3 years. As you know, the foundation is the 4 pillars: deliver on our growth engines, I think you'll see in the results that we continue to have great momentum around our innovative portfolio of AUSTEDO, UZEDY and AJOVY and some great progress on our innovation, so step-up innovation. You'll see that we filed olanzapine last year, completed the recruitment of the DARI study, dual-action rescue inhaler and started our Phase III study for duvakitug in UC and CD.

And then sustained generics powerhouse, good progress. Our aim is to get this business back to stability, and we have done that. And now we see some exciting growth emerging from our biosimilars portfolio, and I'll talk a bit about that. And then focus the business. This is all about making sure we allocate capital to the correct areas to give the best return. And we'll walk you through a bit of the progress we've had on our transformation program, which is the aim is to have $700 million of net savings by 2027. We made excellent progress in '25, and we're on track to hit the 2/3 by the end of this year 2026.

So now moving on to the actual results. So I'm pleased with these results. Now just to orientate you on this slide, the numbers on the left include the Sanofi milestones and the numbers on the right do not. So starting with the revenues. So a 5% increase in revenues at $17.3 billion. EBITDA grew 12% up to $5.3 billion. EPS grew 19% to $2.93 and free cash flow was up 16% to $2.4 billion. And our net debt to EBITDA is now at 2.5x, which is, as you know, our goal for 2027 is to 2x. So we're well on our way to do that.

Now a slide that I've shown over the last 12 quarters actually, to show that our return to growth, which was our strategy, part of the Pivot to Growth strategy when we launched it in 2023. And as you see, we've consecutively done this. And we did that in Q4, where the growth was up 11%. Now that did include the milestone from Sanofi. If you take that away, we were slightly down at 1%.

But let's look at it over a 3-year period. So over a 3-year period, these are impressive results, once again, reminding you that we had multiple years of sales decline. And so in 2023, we actually grew the business 4%, in '24, 11% and then last year, 2%. So we're well on track for our CAGR of mid-single digit, as you can see from the slide there.

Now let's get into a bit of detail as to what's driving these good results. So on the next slide, you'll see the innovative performance is one of the key areas of growth for us. And AUSTEDO, UZEDY and AJOVY hit $3.1 billion for the year. This is up about 35%. So excellent results there. And I'm really pleased to tell you that in Q4, we surpassed $1 billion for our innovative portfolio that you see on the screen here.

But in a bit more detail, AUSTEDO grew at 34% at $2.26 billion. UZEDY was up 63% at $191 million, and AJOVY continues to perform, was up 30% at $673 million. Our generics business was flat, worth noting this excludes Japan from these numbers. Now I've talked a lot about moving from a pure-play generics company to a biopharma company. I think these results show we clearly have done that. And now it's a question of just how much we can keep driving this innovative portfolio and the pipeline that comes through.

Now moving on to a bit more detail. I wanted to talk to you a bit about AUSTEDO. So AUSTEDO had a really strong quarter in quarter 4, as you can see, $725 million, up 40% for the quarter. And for the full year, $2.2 billion, up 35%. And this was delivered with good underlying growth. As you can see, TRx is 10%, and there's a 19% rise in milligram volume. This is driven by both new patients and better adherence. It's worth noting that AUSTEDO XR now accounts for 60% of new patients.

Now -- very impressive results here. Now we did have in Q4, these numbers did reflect some year-end inventory stocking and some favorable gross to net. And Eli will talk a bit more detail about that. But if you actually take that out, then we still grew at 20% in Q4. So once again, the underlying growth of this product is very strong. And because of that, we're giving the guidance of $2.4 billion to $2.55 billion for 2025 (sic) [ 2026 ]. I think it's worth noting that if we do hit the upper end of that, then that means we've hit the $2.5 billion a year ahead of schedule. But we'll talk in a bit more detail of the puts and takes to that range.

Now moving on to UZEDY. UZEDY also had another strong quarter, $55 million, up 28% and for the full year, up an impressive 63% to $191 million. TRx volume grew an impressive 123% year-over-year. And it's worth noting that more than 83% of the NBRx generated -- was generated by patients transitioning from oral therapies or treatment naive, which confirms that UZEDY is expanding the long-acting injectable market, not just taking share.

Now another impressive fact on UZEDY is it's the fastest-growing long-acting injectable in its category. And because of this momentum, our guidance reflects this. And as you see, we have a guidance of $250 million to $280 million for 2026.

Now moving on to AJOVY. AJOVY had a strong quarter as well, up 43% year-on-year at $211 million. And for the full year, it's $673 million, up 30%. So once again, for a product that's fairly mature, really strong growth. AJOVY continues to be #1 preventative anti-CGRP injectable in the top U.S. headache centers, and it leads in 30 markets across Europe and international. And this continued growth is driven by, I think, our commercial excellence, our ability to continue to take market share to manage the pricing and the payer environment in the U.S. and to continue to expand in new geographies. And because of this strength, we're giving a guidance of $750 million to $790 million.

Now moving on to the pipeline. So we talked about the products we have in the market and the excellent progress we made on those, but the pipeline is really exciting here. And I do want to mention this, even though I know Eric will talk a bit about it. The things I always remind people about this slide is every product we're going to launch has a potential of over $1 billion. The size of the markets we're entering into are significant and our entry points into these markets are in the short term. And if you look at the total, the total of the portfolio can be over $10 billion of peak sales.

There's an addition to this slide that some of you may not have seen, which is we will be announcing 2 new indications for duvakitug later this year, once again, highlighting that is a pipeline in a product. Now moving on to our generics business. Our generics business, our aim was to get this back to stability, and we've done that. And the generics business was flat in 2025 versus 2024. Now one of the things that I do always highlight is you need to look at the generics business over a multiyear period because of the fact that some years, you have more launches than others. That's just part of the business. And as you see here, our 2-year CAGR is 6%.

But for 2025, the U.S. grew at 2%, international markets, 1% and Europe declined 2%. Now we continue to see good performance from our biosimilars business, and I think I'll move on to that now to talk you through that. And where we started with biosimilars over the last 3 years, we've made tremendous progress. It's worth noting that we now have 10 assets in the market globally, and we're going to launch 6 additional between now and the end of 2027. Then we have another 10 assets that are going to start launching from '28 and beyond.

So some impressive numbers here. So the aim was to build a world-leading portfolio, and we've done that. In fact, I think we have the second largest portfolio of biosimilars now in the industry, and we've launched the most biosimilars since 2020. And because of this, we're well on track to grow our biosimilars business by $400 million by 2027. Now to close out, as you've seen by some of the numbers we've talked about, we're well on track to hit our 2027 guidance. The CAGR, I talked about, we currently stand at 6%. The operating margin will go into a bit more detail, but with the success of our innovative portfolio, we're very confident about 30%. Net debt to EBITDA at 2x, we're already at 2.5x and cash to earnings is 80%, Eli will walk you through a bit more detail on that.

But with that, I'll hand you over to Eric to talk about our exciting pipeline.

Eric Hughes
Executive VP of Global R&D and Chief Medical Officer

Thank you, Richard. Starting with the slide that Richard went over briefly. One of the things about this pipeline is there's 3 Phase III programs and 2 burgeoning Phase II programs. And the market potential is big, like Richard mentioned. But more importantly, it's the unmet medical need that we take pride in and what we're potentially going to address. And finally, I'd like to say that we planned over 5 years for submissions. So we're very proud of the fact that we've turned around this innovative pipeline and moved it forward so quickly.

But I first want to highlight olanzapine LAI. We got the submission in on December 9, and we're looking forward to the EU submission in the second quarter of this year. We've shown that this olanzapine LAI that can address an unmet medical need in schizophrenia has great safety and efficacy, and we want to discuss that with the health authorities and hopefully get that approval at the end of this year. So something very exciting to look forward to.

Next, on our DARI program, our dual-action rescue inhaler, we're very proud of the fact that we finished the targeted enrollment of this study at the end of 2025. And in fact, we're going to continue enrolling it to accelerate the back end of the study. And the most important thing about that enrollment, one of the things that's most difficult is the fact it has pediatrics, adolescents and adult patients. So I think that the opportunity here for a differentiated product of a dry powder inhaler and the fact that we have the potential to have adolescents and pediatrics in the label is a true differentiator for this program, addressing a large unmet medical need in asthma.

And then moving on to duvakitug, a very exciting brand-new biologic class that's in development. A year ago, we showed really exciting Phase II data in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, posting very good numbers in both with a nice dose response. But now we're excited to be looking forward to the maintenance data in the first half of this year. And the important thing about the maintenance data is that we will show hopefully the durability of response. And that's really what people need in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. These are chronic diseases that people frequently fail on their advanced therapies and need more.

So durability in the long term is most important. And just a review, this represents 58 weeks of exposure, looking at 2 different doses given subcutaneously every 4 weeks. And Richard also mentioned that we started our Phase III programs with our partner, Sanofi, the SUNSCAPE and STARSCAPE, started right on time, and we're accelerating those programs and executing very well, and we'll be looking forward to new indications this year.

And then moving on to anti-IL-15. We had a very exciting announcement at JPMorgan that Royalty Pharma provided funding for our program in vitiligo for a Phase II/III program. This is really great external validation of our program, what we will -- what we believe is a very differentiated product to address a number of unmet medical needs. First, in vitiligo, this is something that systemic therapies are needed for, and that results will be available in the first half of this year. But also celiac disease, we're running our second proof-of-concept study with a biopsy endpoint that will be available in the second half of this year.

But in addition to that, alopecia areata, atopic dermatitis and eosinophilic esophagitis are all possible targets for this very important cytokine. And then on to emrusolmin. One of the things I've been very impressed with is the rate at which we've been enrolling this study. This is a Phase II study looking at critical endpoints of an important unmet medical need. I always like to remind people the mean survival in this disease after diagnosis is 6 to 10 years. So this is a very important unmet medical need. We are working hard to make sure that this study not only enrolls quickly, but we will over-enroll to make sure that this Phase II program is as pristine as powerful as possible, really potentially capitalizing on the ability to accelerate this approval.

And before I get on to my last slide, I just wanted to do a shout out for the AJOVY team at Teva. They've done a great job in generating data in migraine, and it's very satisfying to see our innovation is recognized by the New England Journal of Medicine with a publication this month. This is great work by the team and really got that sort of the approval for the only and first CGRP antagonist to be approved for pediatrics with episodic migraine. So very proud and great work and kudos to the team.

But finally, I just want to go over something that we take with great pride. We have a very exciting 2026 coming up with many different milestones in the R&D organization. The duvakitug data, as I mentioned, will come out in the first half. For anti-IL-15, vitiligo data in the first half and celiac data in the second half of 2026. We'll be looking for that final event in the asthma exacerbation study of DARI by the end of the year, which would be completing the Phase III study. The emrusolmin will be targeting a futility analysis at the end of this year, even in the face of accelerating and increasing the enrollment in that Phase II study. And obviously, we're looking for the anticipated approval of olanzapine LAI at the end of the year, and we'll be talking about our first human data for our anti-PD-1 IL-2. So a really exciting year full of catalysts. We're looking forward to all these milestones.

And with that, I'm going to pass it off to Eli Kalif.

Eliyahu Kalif
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Eric, and good morning and good afternoon to everyone. I will review our 2025 financial results, focusing on our fourth quarter performance, followed by our outlook for 2026. I would like to start with the following key messages that highlight our consistent execution throughout 2025. First, we delivered solid Q4 and full year results, driven once again by our fast-growing innovative portfolio, which is also driving a meaningful shift in our margin profile. This was our third consecutive year of growth since we launched our Pivot to Growth strategy.

Second, we continue to strengthen our balance sheet with a net debt reduced to approximately $13 billion and a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.5x, well on track to achieve our target of 2x and our journey to investment-grade ratings. Third, we made significant progress on our transformation programs, achieving $70 million of our planned savings in 2025, staying on track to deliver approximately $700 million savings by 2027, achieving our 30% non-GAAP operating margin targets. And lastly, with our performance in 2025 and outlook for 2026, we are well positioned to achieve our long-term financial targets for 2030.

Now moving to Slide 28. Before I start with the results, I would like to remind everyone that in the fourth quarter of 2025, Teva initiated a Phase III of UC and Crohn's indication for our duvakitug program. As per the collaboration agreement with Sanofi, we received $500 million in Q4 of 2025 for this development milestone. This payment positively contributed $500 million to both our revenue and free cash flow and had a positive contribution to our adjusted EBITDA of approximately $410 million.

During this presentation, I will be discussing our results for the quarter and for the full year of 2025, excluding the impact of these milestone payments. In addition to these payments, I will also be excluding any contribution from the Japan business venture, which we divested on March 31, 2025, to help to provide you with a like-to-like comparison of our financial results.

Now starting with our Q4 GAAP performance. Our Q4 revenue were approximately $4.2 billion, up 2% in U.S. dollars or down 1% in local currency year-over-year. Our key innovative products, AUSTEDO, AJOVY and UZEDY continued strong momentum, all meeting or exceeding our guidance for the full year. This strong growth in our innovative portfolio and stable generics was offset by lower proceeds from the sale of certain product rights compared to Q4 2024. GAAP net income and EPS were $480 million and $0.41, respectively, including the payments for the development milestones.

Now looking to our non-GAAP performance. Our non-GAAP gross margin increased by 80 basis points year-over-year to 56.2% and resulted in our full year gross margin at 54.7%, well above the top end of our guidance range. This increase was mainly driven by a stronger-than-expected growth in our key innovative products, mainly AUSTEDO. Non-GAAP operating margin decreased by approximately 120 basis points year-over-year to 26.7%, mainly because of the higher planned investment in OpEx to support our innovative growth.

Overall, we ended the quarter with a non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.68 compared to $0.70 in Q4 2024. Total non-GAAP adjustments in Q4 were $649 million. This included impairment charge of $77.3 million, mainly related to a manufacturing facility in Europe. Our free cash flow in Q4 was approximately $800 million and $1.9 billion for the full year, coming at the higher end of our guidance range, excluding the development milestones related to duvakitug.

Moving to Slide 29. We are making significant progress in our Teva transformation programs to deliver targeted savings of approximately $700 million by 2027 through a well-defined and planned efforts. During 2025, we achieved $70 million of initial savings, demonstrating solid momentum and execution and continue to expect roughly 2/3 of our total savings target to be realized by the end of 2026. These transformation efforts, along with the ongoing portfolio shift towards high-growth and high-margin innovative products provide a clear path to achieving our 30% operating margin target by 2027, even as we continue to invest in our business for long-term growth.

Now let me turn to our 2026 outlook. As I mentioned earlier, 2025 was a year of a strong progress on our Pivot to Growth strategy. We delivered revenue growth, expanded profits and margin, invested in our innovative products and pipeline and made significant progress towards our journey to investment-grade ratings. In 2026, we remain focused on continuing this momentum and executing on accelerate growth path to our strategy.

Starting with our revenue guidance for 2026. We expect full year revenue of $16.4 billion to $16.8 billion. This represents a range of approximately 1% growth to 2% decline compared to 2025 on a normal base, excluding the $500 million development milestone payments and $75 million contribution in 2025 for the Japan business venture. This revenue guidance is consistent with our previous communication and reflects continued strong momentum in our innovative portfolio, including AUSTEDO, AJOVY and UZEDY combined with a low single-digit growth in global generics business.

It's expected to largely offset revenue headwinds of approximately $1.1 billion from generic Revlimid in 2026. We expect non-GAAP gross margin in 2026 to be in the range of 54.5% to 55.5%, showing a further improvement over a strong 2025, driven again by the ongoing positive shift in our portfolio mix and the cost savings from our ongoing transformation programs. As a result, and as previously communicated, we expected our non-GAAP operating income and adjusted EBITDA to both growth in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue compared to 2025.

Our operating expenses are expected to be in the range of 27% to 28% of revenue with a higher impact of the transformation program cost savings in the second half of the year. We expect finance expenses to be approximately $800 million in 2026, lower than 2025, reflecting the reduced debt levels and ongoing deleveraging. Our non-GAAP tax rate is expected to be in the range of 16% to 19%, slightly higher than 2025, which benefited partially from IP-related integration plans and the recognition of certain U.S. tax attributes. This brings us to expected non-GAAP earnings per share range of $2.57 to $2.77.

Our 2026 free cash flow is expected to be in the range of $2 billion to $2.4 billion, representing a strong ongoing improvement in our cash conversion profile and consistent with our long-term targets. Now lastly, let me provide you with some directions on how we think about quarterly progression in 2026. We expect revenue to gradually increase over the course of the year with the revenue in the second half of 2026 slightly higher than the first half.

Q1 is expected to be light, mainly due to the following: First, a year-over-year decline in our U.S. generics revenue, mainly because of approximately $300 million in generic Revlimid revenue from Q1 of 2025 that is going away. Second, on AUSTEDO, during Q4 of 2025, on top of AUSTEDO's strong underlying performance, we had the benefit of a year-end inventory build and a onetime gross to net of approximately $100 million. While we expect a strong year-over-year growth for AUSTEDO in Q1 2026, we expect Q1 revenue to reflect the sequential impact of these onetime benefits.

We also expect AUSTEDO revenue in Q4 '26 to be potentially down year-over-year due to a different purchasing patterns and pricing environment ahead of the IRA implementation in January 2027. Our non-GAAP margins are also expected to be gradually ramped up over the course of the year, in line with the revenue trajectory as well as savings from the ongoing transformation programs. The onetime revenue dynamics that I just talked about will also impact gross margin in Q1 beyond the normal seasonality we see going from Q4 to Q1. Free cash flow is also expected to ramp up over the course of the year.

Now on the next slide, I would like to highlight the strong free cash flow trajectory that we are on. There are 3 main elements that are going to continue to drive incremental free cash flow, going from approximately $1.9 billion in 2025, excluding duvakitug milestone payments to more than $3.5 billion by 2030. First, our innovative portfolio is uniquely positioned to continue to grow strongly, driving higher margins and free cash flow. In addition, we are on track to achieve $700 million savings from transformation programs by 2027. We don't stop here, and we'll continue to drive modernization of Teva beyond 2027.

Second, we continue to strengthen our balance sheet through working capital and CapEx optimization. And lastly, we continue to deleverage, reduction in our debt expected to result in lower finance expenses by approximately 50% by 2030, and we expect to see a reduction in our legal payments over time.

Now turning to the next slide on capital allocation. Our capital allocation strategy is focused on driving our Pivot to Growth strategy. This means keep investing in our key growth drivers and our world-class innovative pipeline. We are also making significant progress towards our target of 2x net debt-to-EBITDA and an investment-grade credit ratings. This progress is recognized consistently by the major credit rating agencies, including the recent upgrade by S&P and an improved outlook by Moody's.

With the progress we have been making, I expect to see us achieving these goals in not-too-distant future, which also position us very well to thoughtfully evaluate additional ways of returning capital to our shareholders. Finally, before I conclude my review of our 2025 performance, I would like to reiterate our long-term targets. We are clearly on the journey to be a leading innovative biopharma company. With our growing innovative mix, a number of key pipeline developments this year and our free cash flow trajectory, we are confident about the directions we are on to achieve our 2027 and 2030 financial targets.

With that, I will now hand it back to Richard for his closing remarks.

Richard Francis
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Eli, and thank you, Eric. So the next slide I'm going to go on to here is the one Eric showed, but I think it's one that's worthy of being repeated. A really exciting year here for Teva with regards to milestones on our innovative portfolio. We have 7 milestones here on this slide. So very proud of that, very proud of what the team has achieved. Obviously, we have some exciting data around vitiligo and anti-IL-15 and celiac disease. We have the olanzapine launch later this year. We have the duvakitug maintenance data, the futility analysis, which could accelerate our ability to get to market with emrusolmin treating this very serious disease. So lots of opportunity here to continue this transition to a world-class biopharma company.

Congratulations once again to the R&D team for moving this through so quickly. In just 3 years, we progressed this pipeline at record speed. Now it's because of this pipeline, it's because of the continued strong performance we have in our innovative portfolio that I mentioned earlier and Eli also mentioned, is why we're confident about the opportunity to continue to grow Teva top and bottom line and why we think it's an attractive investment opportunity. Because as you can see here, not only do we have significant headroom for AUSTEDO, AJOVY, we have the LAI franchise with UZEDY performing well, but olanzapine about to join it this year.

I highlighted the amount of biosimilars that will be launched over the next few years. And then as we look forward, that pipeline, the readouts I just mentioned will start to come to fruition. So we'll be able to continue this momentum going forward. To move on to my final slide, just to conclude. Our growth journey continues. We have 3 years of consecutive growth. We have a 6% CAGR. Our innovative brands are growing at double digit, and they have headroom to keep growing. We have near-term milestone readouts, 7 in '26. And we have a stable outlook for our generics business, and we continue to focus on accelerating our Pivot to Growth journey.

And with that, I'll open the floor to questions. Thank you.

