Tilray Brands, Inc. (TLRY) Q2 2026 Earnings Call January 8, 2026 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Berrin Noorata - Chief Corporate Affairs Officer
Irwin Simon - President, CEO & Chairman
Carl Merton - CFO & Principal Accounting Officer

Conference Call Participants

William Kirk - ROTH Capital Partners, LLC, Research Division
Xin Ma - TD Cowen, Research Division
Aaron Grey - Alliance Global Partners, Research Division
Pablo Zuanic - Zuanic & Associates
Frederico Yokota Gomes - ATB Capital Markets Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Thank you for joining today's conference call to discuss Tilray Brands' financial results for the second quarter fiscal year 2026 ended November 30, 2025. [Operator Instructions]

Now I'll turn over the call to Ms. Berrin Noorata, Tilray Brands' Chief Corporate Affairs and Communications Officer. Thank you. You may begin.

Berrin Noorata
Chief Corporate Affairs Officer

Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. By now, you should have access to the earnings press release, which is available on the Investors section of the Tilray Brands website at tilray.com and has been filed with the SEC and SEDAR.

Please note that during today's call, we will be referring to various non-GAAP financial measures that can provide useful information for investors. However, the presentation of this information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. The earnings press release contains a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable measure prepared in accordance with GAAP.

In addition, we will be making numerous forward-looking statements during our remarks and in response to your questions. These statements are based on our current expectations and beliefs and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may prove to be incorrect. Actual results could differ materially from those described in those forward-looking statements.

The text in our earnings press release includes many of the risks and uncertainties associated with such forward-looking statements.

Today, we will be hearing from key members of our senior leadership team, beginning with Irwin Simon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer who will provide opening remarks and commentary, followed by Carl Merton, Chief Financial Officer, who will review our financial results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2026.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Tilray Brands' Chairman and CEO, Irwin Simon.

Irwin Simon
President, CEO & Chairman

Thank you very much, Berrin, and good afternoon, everyone, and happy new year. Thank you so much for joining us today. We delivered a strong second quarter marked by record results and a beat against analyst expectations in the face of strong headwinds. We recorded our highest ever Q2 net revenue of $218 million, achieved an adjusted EBITDA of $8.4 million, and a reported reverse stocks with adjusted EPS loss of $0.02, all while generating an adjusted cash operating income of $6 million.

More importantly, the quality of our performance continues to improve. Highlights this quarter include a 51% sequential growth in the international cannabis revenue and a meaningful year-over-year improvement in both net income and free cash flow.

We also continue to strengthen our balance sheet. We ended the quarter with approximately $292 million in cash and marketable securities and reduced our debt by approximately $4 million during Q2, leading to a strong net cash position exceeding our debt by almost $30 million.

In a rapidly evolving global cannabis regulatory environment, particularly in the U.S., our liquidity and balance sheet strength remains a clear strategic advantage. Today, Tilray operates more than 40 brands in more than 20 countries. We are a global leader in cannabis trusted by patients, health care professionals and regulators worldwide. We are the #1 cannabis producer in Canada by revenue, the fourth largest craft beer brewer in the United States and a market leader in branded hemp wellness products across North America, where our high-protein hemp food portfolio holds a nearly 60% market share.

Our Q2 results reinforces the momentum we discussed last quarter, improving fundamentals, sharper execution and increasing leverage from our diversified global platform across cannabis, beverage and wellness. Let's turn to our cannabis business, which is strategically positioned for its next phase of growth.

While global cannabis markets continue to evolve, we believe the industry remains early in its long-term development cycle. The decision by President Trump to federally reschedule cannabis in the U.S. represents one of the most consequential regulatory shifts that the industry has seen in decades. Thank you, President Trump, if you're listening today. This is a moment Tilray has been preparing for methodically for years. And guess what, we are ready to go. We believe that cannabis rescheduling for Schedule III will lead the U.S. towards a federally compliant medical cannabis brainwork consistent with our other developed international markets, Tilray is positioned to act immediately.

We already have the platform, regulatory experience, operating capabilities and leadership team in place with Tilray Medical U.S. to execute responsibly and to scale. Globally, Tilray Medical is expected to generate approximately $150 million in revenue on an annual run rate. We offer over 200 medical cannabis products, serving more than 500,000 registered patients worldwide. We have participated more than 25 medical cannabis studies and clinical trials conducted in the U.S., Canada, Australia, Argentina and across Europe with leading hospitals, physicians addressing conditions such as pediatric epilepsy, cancer-related nausea, PTSD, chronic pain, anxiety, essential tremors, alcohol use disorders, glioblastomas, cannabinoid impairment and driving performance.

These initiatives reinforce Tilray's reputation as a science-driven evident-based medical cannabis company and they underscore the trust placed in us by health care professionals, patients and regulators globally. We also possess one of the largest banks of cannabis genetics, which we intend to study in order to support research on the endocannabinoid system and advance medical cannabis science further.

Now let's turn to Q2 cannabis performance. Global cannabis revenue increased to $68 million, our high-margin international cannabis business led the growth, increasing 36% year-over-year and 51% substantially to $20 million, marking one of our strongest international quarters to date, and we fully expect this momentum to continue as we expand our global footprint. This performance is particularly notable given ongoing permit challenges, regular transitions in Portugal and Germany and continued price compression, especially in flower. I'd like to acknowledge and thank the international team for their focused execution under these circumstances.

I also want to recognize our Canadian cannabis team for their expertise, support and supply contribution. Additionally, I appreciate the cooperation of Infarmed and the Portuguese regulators to facilitating improvements to permitting approval time lines.

Looking ahead, Europe, particularly Germany, the U.K. and Poland represents a significant growth opportunity for us. Execution will be driven by operational disciplines, including process improvement, automation, cross-functional coordination and increased utilization at our cultivation facilities in Portugal and Germany and utilizing our Canadian facilities. Tilray operates one of the largest cannabis footprints in Europe which we're continuing to expand and our advantage lies in scale, speed to market data-driven decisions making and experience gained from our Canadian operation.

Moving on to Tilray Pharma and our distribution business. As discussed last quarter, we're expanding our pharmacy reach in Germany, utilizing Tilray's Pharma expansive pharmacy network and salespeople and expect to triple our medical cannabis distribution footprint in fiscal 2026. We remain on track to achieve these objectives.

In terms of Q2 performance, revenue grew by 26% year-over-year and 15% sequentially to $85 million, making it our biggest quarter ever, while improving our gross margins. The increase in distribution revenue in the period was driven by competitive pricing, portfolio optimization and increased focus on medical device sales. Looking ahead, Tilray Pharma is laser focused on enhancing operational efficiency to support its commercial expansion into 3,000 additional pharmacies through strategic partnerships.

As medical cannabis continues to expand globally, Tilray Pharma is positioned to play a significant role in our overall growth by utilizing insights gaining through integrating our medical operations Tilray Pharma aims to strengthen its business value and create new growth opportunities within both the European medical market and the U.S.

International markets remain one of Tilray's most compelling long-term growth drivers as we expect market opportunities, revenue, profitability continues to grow. In Canada, our cannabis business continues to reinforce its leadership position. During Q2, our adult-use medical sales channel, net of excise tax, grew to $46 million with recreational cannabis growing 6% in the quarter. Tilray continues to hold a leading market position in dried flower, non-infused pre-rolls, beverages, oils and chocolate edibles. Our disciplined approach to product mix, margin management and premium pricing has supported our strategic reentry into the high-growth segments as vapes and infused pre-rolls with a focus on accretive margins. In Q2, we advanced our innovation pipeline with the launch of Redecan Amped Live Resin Liquid Diamond vapes, addressing consumers' demand for the full spectrum of cannabinoids strain-specific terpenes that deliver an authentic plant profile. This product combines 80% of live resin with 20% of liquid diamonds, maximizing potency while maintaining natural flavor integrity.

In addition, we entered the Quebec market with vapes with a Good Supply brand, rapidly achieving that top 3 SKU positions in the province while underscoring effective execution and strong consumer update. Operationally, we hit our highest quarterly volume in 2 years with over 5.5 million units shipped in Canada in Q2. We also completed our first harvest from our restarted outdoor cannabis grow in Cayuga, Ontario, exceeding expectations on the THC content.

With this extra biomass, our cannabis cultivation capacity rises to 200 metric tons annually but this boost not only allows us to provide high-quality products at reduced costs and improve our profit margin, but also helps us expand into fast-growing markets, supplying both Canadian and international customers, including those in Europe to meet increasing global demand. The positive momentum of the past two quarters reflect the trajectory of Canadian cannabis business With the right product mix, healthy margins, we're well positioned to elevate this business in the second half of 2026 and beyond.

With the reschedule of cannabis in the U.S. now is the time for Canada to modernize its regulation and secure its position as a global cannabis leader, including excise tax reform, marketing flexibility, health care integration and on-premise consumption. Without modernization, Canada risks becoming an exporter of raw products while value creation, intellectual property and long-term economic growth moves elsewhere. As a global policy accelerates, the choice is clear, modernized Canada's cannabis regulation to support economic competitiveness, consumer education, sustainable growth or risk being left behind in an industry Canada helped to create.

Prime Minister Carney, I hope you're listening to this call, the Canadian cannabis industry has generated a significant amount of jobs, contribute billions of dollars in tax revenues of both federal and provincial governments. However, the lack of regulatory reform is resulting in Canadian producers redirecting their investments and attention towards international markets where excise tax can be circumvented.

Given the declining spirits industry in Canada, excise tax should be reduced, cannabis drinks should be permitted in liquor stores and on-premise location, medical cannabis sales in drug stores with lower excise tax burden while boosting overall tax revenues as the industry grows.

Turning to our beverage business in Q2. Beverage revenue totaled $50 million. We continue to make progress executing our integration and optimization strategy. We delivered $27 million in annualized cost savings in the first half of the year and remain on track towards our $33 million target. We're making meaningful progress in improving performance. However, there is more to be done as we continue to integrate our brands, streamline operations and optimize processes. We acquired brands with the understanding that significant improvements and comprehensive turnaround would be necessary. A process that is currently underway through our integration plan, we recognize this transformation will take time. And while we have not achieved all our objectives. We are on track and encouraged by the positive momentum gained so far.

We look forward to the up-and-coming spring product resets with our retail partners and the introduction of some of the new innovations in the market. These changes are anticipated to have a positive impact on revenue in the fourth quarter. Our outlook may seem bullish but conviction is essential for success, which remains our primary focus revitalizing the craft beer category, making beer fun again, bringing people together, fostering meaningful connections and generating long-term value for our shareholders.

We've established brands, breweries, a major distribution system. Tilray is here to stay and not going anywhere. Tilray aims to expand its regional national and global presence through strategic partnerships with leading U.S. and international brands. We expect to share more about this in the future but we believe these partnerships validate the strength of our platform and our strategic vision.

This approach also position us for future opportunities, should cannabis THC drinks become federally legal in the U.S. We're ready to produce and sell as we're currently operating a leading THC beverage operation across Canada with over 45% of the THC beverage market share.

Regarding our U.S. hemp-derived THC business, we continue to offer Fizzy Jane's, Happy Flower hemp-derived THC beverages with 5-milligram and 10-milligram formats through nationwide retailer partnership. Distribution includes, nature wine liquor grocery outlets across the country. While regulatory changes may affect HDD9 products after 2026, we anticipate compliant participation under new federal laws, if it happens.

We're also pursuing international growth by expanding our beverage business into new markets worldwide, we're expect to leverage our future strategic partnerships. Our strategy for beverage abroad is evolving with an emphasis on craft beer and nonalcoholic drinks, including energy beverages that meet the demands of consumers in this expanding sector where brands such as HiBall, our clean energy drink, Liquid Love, our sparkling water brand. HiBall is set to launch in the U.K. in Q4, with the expansion plans also underway for the Middle East and Africa.

Beyond nonalcoholic beverages and the energy drinks, we continue to explore opportunities to build on our global craft beer segment. Tilray recently participated in the American Craft Beer Expo in Japan and gain valuable insight which the team will pursue in the future.

Rounding out our beverage strategy, we're also focused on expanding our nonalcoholic beverages in the U.S. and across international markets. our recent innovations, including non-alc beers under Montauk, 10 Barrel and our non-alc ready-to-drink canned beverages and distilled spirits, including Mock One. Within the spirits category, despite market challenges in Q2, we focus on enhancing our commercial strategy, resulting in a 9.2% increase in depletions across vodka, bourbon and gin with vodka leading by double digit for the quarter. While the Broncos seasonal release sold out rapidly, our ongoing efforts to remain focused on expanding product distribution to additional states and beyond. With 5 years experience in the beverage alcohol industry, we remain confident in our future trajectory as we continue to enhance operational efficiency.

Now turning to our wellness business. We generated revenue of $14.6 million, driven by a strategic focus on value-added innovation including high-protein, superseeds, better-for-you breakfast products, better-for-you snacking and the continued success of our HiBall clean energy drinks. Within our ingredient sales business, we've expanded our range of offerings in hemp protein, hemp oil, helping us further develop our business in North America and Asia. Our hemp food business remains fully insulated from proposed hemp THC regulation as these products contain zero THC and are broadly distributed across mainstream retail.

In closing, we are confident in Tilray's trajectories for the second half of fiscal 2026 and beyond with a diversified, scalable platform, improving fundamentals strong liquidity, regulatory tailwinds developing globally, Tilray is well positioned to capitalize on the next phase of growth across cannabis, beverage and wellness products. Thank you to our shareholders for your continued support and confidence in Tilray's long-term strategy.

I will now turn the call over to Carl to walk through our financial results in more detail. Carl, are you ready?

Carl Merton
CFO & Principal Accounting Officer

Thank you, Irwin. Before I begin, please note that we present our financials in accordance with U.S. GAAP and in U.S. dollars. Throughout our discussions, we will be referring to both GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted results and we encourage you to review the reconciliation contained within the press release of our reported results under GAAP with the corresponding non-GAAP measures.

This quarter, we are reporting record second quarter net revenue and strong year-over-year improvements in profitability, and we are reaffirming our full year 2026 adjusted EBITDA guidance. Net revenue for the quarter was a record $217.5 million. Revenue growth was primarily driven by strong results in our international operations, both international cannabis and Tilray Pharma. Additionally, Canadian adult-use revenue grew year-over-year.

Cannabis net revenue increased year-over-year to $67.5 million during the quarter driven by a strong 36% increase in revenue from international cannabis and a 6% increase in Canadian adult-use cannabis. The continued year-over-year growth in our international cannabis business reinforces our view that Q1 results were temporarily affected by the timing of import and export permits. As a result, Q4 2025 and Q2 of this year provide a more accurate reflection of our ongoing performance expectations for the duration of the fiscal year.

With the continued growth of international cannabis, we deliberately chose to scale back supply into the Canadian wholesale market in the quarter and redeploy that supply, along with new growth into the higher-margin international cannabis markets over the remainder of the year.

Beverage net revenue for the quarter was $50.1 million. Beverage revenue was impacted by category-wide headwinds in the craft beer segment and our own portfolio optimization efforts under Project 420 where SKU rationalization and margin-focused initiatives continue to impact revenue. However, we expect spring retailer product resets to help mitigate industry trends. These upcoming changes should improve brand visibility and align product mix with consumer preferences, which we expect to benefit better revenue and gross margins in the fourth fiscal quarter.

Wellness net revenue was flat year-over-year at $14.6 million based on our strategic focus on value-added innovation and continued growth in HiBall and the ingredient channel. Results were offset by challenges in the club retail channel, which we are addressing through targeted initiatives.

Distribution net revenue increased 26% year-over-year to $85.3 million based on our focus on competitive pricing, the prioritization of high-margin SKUs and favorable impacts from foreign exchange. We believe our distribution business will continue to complement and strengthen our international cannabis segment as we grow both in tandem.

In terms of contribution, cannabis revenue accounted for 31% of revenue, beverage revenue was 23%, distribution was 39%, and wellness accounted for the final 7%. Gross profit during the quarter was $57.5 million, and gross margin for the quarter was 26%, while margins increased in cannabis, distribution and wellness. Margin construction in the beverage segment negatively impacted the gross margin for the quarter. By segment, beverage gross margin reached 31% this quarter. While this represents a temporary decrease from last year, we are confident that the ongoing implementation of Project 420 will deliver significant improvements while also actively working on additional cost savings to improve overhead utilization as well as SG&A.

As these initiatives progress and sales volumes recover, we anticipate stronger overhead utilization and a return to higher margins. Importantly, we remain on track to achieve $33 million in annualized cost savings from Project 420 by the fourth quarter of 2026, positioning our beverage segment for long-term success.

Cannabis gross margin increased to 39% compared to 35% last year. The increase was due to a greater proportion of sales being generated in the higher-margin international markets but was offset by increased sales in lower margin price competitive categories in the Canadian adult-use market like vapes and pre-rolls.

Distribution gross margin increased to 13%, up from 12% last year, while continuing to grow top line revenue. In wellness, gross margin rose to 32% from 31% as we successfully managed input costs and enhanced operational efficiencies. Our adjusted cash operating income for the quarter was positive $6 million which excludes the noncash impacts of amortization and stock-based compensation.

Net loss for the quarter was $43.5 million, a 49% improvement year-over-year compared to $85.3 million or $0.41 per share compared to $0.99 per share. It should be noted that EPS was impacted tenfold by the reverse stock split and has been reflected in both periods. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $8.4 million compared to $9 million last year. Cash flow used in operations was down to $8.5 million compared to $40.7 million last year. The $32.2 million improvement in cash used in operations was almost entirely related to reductions in working capital.

We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $291.6 million, $0.8 million in digital assets and improved from a net debt position of approximately $4 million in the prior quarter to a net cash position of almost $30 million at the end of the period. Additionally, during the quarter, we also completed our ATM program in the market. Our strong cash position provides us with the flexibility we need to execute on strategic opportunities and take advantage of the changing regulatory landscape and we intend to work to further strengthen our balance sheet throughout the remainder of the year.

Finally, we remain confident in our business, our strategy, and our opportunity, and we are reaffirming our 2026 adjusted EBITDA guidance of $62 million to $72 million. We can now open the call for Q&A.

