Toast, Inc. (TOST) Q3 2025 Earnings Call November 4, 2025 5:00 PM EST

Company Participants

Michael Senno - Senior VP of Finance & Strategy, Treasury and Investor Relations
Aman Narang - Co-Founder, CEO & Director
Elena Gomez - President, CFO and Interim Chief Accounting & Principal Accounting Officer

Conference Call Participants

Josh Baer - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
William Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Timothy Chiodo - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Dan Dolev - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Dominic Ball - Rothschild & Co Redburn, Research Division
David Hynes - Canaccord Genuity Corp., Research Division
Rayna Kumar - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Jason Kupferberg - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Stephen Sheldon - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division
Samad Samana - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Darrin Peller - Wolfe Research, LLC

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon. My name is Danielle, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Toast's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call will be 45 minutes. I'll now turn the call over to Michael Senno, Senior Vice President of Finance. You may begin your conference.

Michael Senno
Senior VP of Finance & Strategy, Treasury and Investor Relations

Thank you. Welcome to Toast earnings conference call for the third quarter ended September 30, 2025. On today's call are CEO, Aman Narang; and CFO, Elena Gomez; will open with prepared remarks, which will be followed by our Q&A session.

Before we start, I'd like to draw your attention to the safe harbor statement included in today's press release. During this call, we'll make statements related to our business that may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements including those regarding management's expectations of future financial and operational performance and operational expenditures, location growth, future profitability and margin outlook, business and investment strategy, expected growth and business outlook, including our financial guidance for the fourth quarter and full year 2025.

Forward-looking statements reflect our views only as of today. And except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements. Please refer to the cautionary language in today's press release and our SEC filings for a discussion of the risks and uncertainty that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.

During this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures, including, but not limited to, non-GAAP subscription services gross profit and non-GAAP Financial Technology Solutions gross profit, which we refer to collectively as our recurring gross profit streams. These are the basis for our top line guidance. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for our GAAP results.

Please refer to the earnings release and SEC filings for detailed reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures. Unless otherwise stated, all references on this call to cost of revenue, gross profit and gross margin, sales and marketing expense, research and development expense and general and administrative expense are on a non-GAAP basis.

Finally, the press release can be found on the Investor Relations website at investors.toasttab.com. After the call, a replay will be available on our website.

And with that, let me turn the call over to Aman.

Aman Narang
Co-Founder, CEO & Director

Thanks, Michael, and thank you, everybody, for joining us this afternoon. We delivered another great quarter with 34% top line growth, 35% margins and continued year-over-year growth in net location adds. Our momentum and execution thus far has us well positioned to deliver a strong 2025. We surpassed $2 billion in ARR for the first time. And while I'm proud of this milestone, I'm even more energized about where we're headed.

We are an industry leader here in the U.S. in our core business with a clear path to doubling our market share as we scale locations and deliver customer-focused innovation for restaurants. This success enables us to invest in our fast-growing new market segments. We will continue to expand our TAM into new verticals, new geographies while increasing the capabilities we provide for existing customers. This growth mindset is key to building a durable growth company that can scale to $5 billion and $10 billion in ARR and beyond.

I want to thank the entire Toast team for an exceptional year so far and I'm confident in our collective ability to keep raising the bar as we grow from here.

This quarter, we secured numerous marquee wins, including large-scale operators such as Nordstrom, TGI Fridays and Everbowl, brands that are turning to Toast to power their next stage of growth. I'm also excited to announce an expanded partnership with Uber, making it easier for restaurants to drive guest demand and better manage off-premise sales.

We also plan to support each other in the field with joint go-to-market efforts both here in the U.S. as well as in our international markets. At the start of the year, we laid out 4 key priorities. Number one, scale locations and market share in our core U.S. SMB business; two, demonstrates that our new markets can be material drivers of growth; three, increased customer adoption of our broad platform and drive differentiation through data and AI, and lastly, continue to invest with discipline in our most important priorities while expanding margins over time.

Starting with number one, scaling locations in our U.S. SMB and mid-market restaurant business. Today, about 95% of our ARR comes from our core U.S. SMB and mid-market restaurant customers led by our best-in-class restaurant platform and strong go-to-market execution, we win the majority of decisions we're in, and our win rates against every major competitor are up year-over-year.

Net adds in our core remained in the same range from a year ago, and this momentum puts us on a clear path to doubling our share of locations and GPV over time. Many of the best restaurants in the country run on Toast from new concepts to award-winning institutions. For example, 14 of Bon Appetit 20 Best New restaurants for 2025 chose Toast and more than half of all Michelin-starred restaurants in the U.S. are powered by our platform as well.

A great example is Canlis, a Seattle landmark redefining hospitality for over 70 years. After struggling with reliability and uptime, they've turned to Toast for our simplicity, reliability and hands-on support. They love that they no longer need to think about the technology to deliver one of the best ending experiences in the country.

In their words, Toast works so well, we don't even have to think about it. We're also seeing strong traction in mid-market with a steady stream of wins each quarter. As I shared earlier, Nordstrom is rolling out Toast at nearly 200 dining locations nationwide, unifying multiple concepts on one platform.

TGI Fridays is moving its U.S. footprint to Toast, simplifying operations across its restaurant and Everbowl, a fast-growing 100-plus unit brand chose Toast for our ability to deliver speed and simplicity at scale. These wins highlight the versatility of our platform to serve restaurants at every type and size. And our platform only grows stronger with the addition of new AI-driven capabilities that I'll touch on in a moment.

So moving on to our second priority, demonstrating that the new market segments can be material drivers of growth. We continue to build momentum in international markets as we expand our platform and establish Toast brand globally. Large well-respected multi-concept hospitality groups such as Eclective in Ireland, Caravan Group in the U.K. and Happy Belly Group in Canada have chosen Toast because the CS is a best-in-class solution that can help them run a better business.

We're rolling out new integrations, including with Uber, we've improved our online ordering and inventory management solutions and continue to regionalize key capabilities as we build towards the best global platform for restaurants. International SaaS ARPU is up 20% year-over-year. And we're confident that these investments will continue to drive both ARPU and win rates over time.

In Food and Beverage retail, we continue to gain traction each quarter. We recently went live with Tri-County Meat Markets in Texas, DeLallo Italian Market in Pennsylvania and Nature's Best in Illinois. They all came to Toast for a modern all-in-one platform, that allows them to manage everything from thousands of inventory items to efficient checkout lanes at scale.

We're expanding our sales team and deepening our retail offering with features and integrations to support our vertical strategy. At the same time, it's exciting to see our customers leverage parts of our restaurant platform, including our kitchen display screens, the power fulfillment in grocery stores as well as bottle shops.

And lastly, in enterprise, our continued investment in the upshore and multi-location management capabilities is paying off. We landed our 2 largest deals ever this year, and our pipeline has never been stronger. Across all these markets, our momentum is accelerating. We're confident in our path to become a market leader in each of these areas and building them into meaningful growth engines for Toast.

Over the long term, we believe these new TAMs have the potential to surpass our core business and enable us to scale from 156,000 locations today to 500,000 locations and beyond.

Next, our third priority is expanding our platform adoption and driving differentiation through data and AI. Toast was built by listening to customers, taking real problems from the restaurant floor and turn them into products that make a difference in their day-to-day. This customer-centric approach powers our next wave of innovation, where our unique scale and data are driving new AI products like Toast IQ and Toast Advertising.

We recently evolved [indiscernible] into Toast IQ, a true AI assistant for restaurant operators. At Amici, a casual pizza and wing spot in Georgia, the team uses Toast IQ daily to analyze sales, adjust menus and make faster decisions. As an example, it flagged a drink promo costing them up to $700 a day and help them fix it and build a happy hour menu that is even more effective. As they put it, Toast IQ feels like having a personal assistance. And that's the goal.

Toast IQ gives fast answers, proactive insights and direct actions to operators. Adoption has been strong. And since rolling it out in early October, more than 25,000 restaurants have used Toast IQ over 235,000 times so far. Our mission is to help our customers drive real results by making Toast IQ the intelligence platform of the future. The product gets better every day as we expand the data sources and deepen integrations across the platform.

As an example, we're also partnering with brands like The Coca-Cola to help restaurants increase drink sales through data-driven recommendations. Just one example of the exciting new opportunities this product unlocks.

Our marketing and advertising tools are another way we're helping restaurants grow. We started with e-mail and SMS, then layered in AI to automate and personalize outreach. With Toast Advertising, operators can now launch campaigns across Google and Meta in just minutes with AI-powered recommendations and clear ROI reporting. And is driving real impact.

During the peak season, Pizza by the Sea in Florida estimated $400,000 in sales across its 4 locations, which was attributed to Toast advertising campaigns, a more than 20 times return on ad spend. Together, Toast IQ and Toast Advertising are just the start of how we're combining AI, data and deep restaurant expertise to make our platform smarter, more powerful and indispensable to restaurants everywhere.

And wrapping it up with our fourth priority, we're continuing to invest with discipline while expanding margins. Our goal is to maximize long-term shareholder value by building a durable growth business that compounds ARR over time. It took us more than 10 years to reach our first $1 billion in ARR and just 2 years to double it.

We are a leader in our core U.S. SMB business and have conviction that we can replicate that success across our new TAMs by using the same vertical strategy that has worked so well in our core across new verticals, new geographies and new segments.

With strong momentum across all areas, we're on track to increase net adds in 2025 as well as 2026. Enterprise, international and food and beverage retail are collectively on pace to reach $100 million in ARR this year, and we see the potential for each of them to grow to $1 billion ARR over time.

As we scale, we're also carefully managing our margins by prioritizing what's most important to build a long-term growth business. Our core business already operates at our target 40% EBITDA margin that we laid out at our Investor Day, giving us the flexibility to invest in new growth engines. Given the size of the opportunity, our growing conviction and leadership across new markets and our line of sight to achieving strong unit economics at scale, we're investing to accelerate growth.

We're executing against what we laid out at our Investor Day last year. We have momentum in our core, traction across new markets, expanding platform adoption and strong execution across the business. I've never been more confident in our ability to create value for our customers and drive long-term shareholder value.

To wrap up, I want to thank our entire team, our customers as well as our investors. The progress we're making this year is a direct result of our team's hard work and dedication, our customers' trust and of course, the support of all of our investors.

Thank you. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Elena.

Elena Gomez
President, CFO and Interim Chief Accounting & Principal Accounting Officer

Thank you, Aman, and to everyone for joining us today. To start, I would also like to thank our team for another strong quarter, which came in better than our expectations. We crossed $2 billion in ARR in the third quarter, just 2 years after hitting $1 billion. Doubling our ARR underscores the strength and diversity of our business model with both payments and SaaS ARR each exceeding $1 billion for the first time. We're proud of the milestone and sustaining strong ARR growth at scale, though we're far from done.

Our management team wakes up every day with the mindset of getting to $10 billion in ARR over the next decade. Starting with our core business, getting to this point took years of investment to establish the breadth of our product and go-to-market footprint. The result of these investments and our relentless focus on execution is a business with 40% margins that continues to scale. While our core business is already operating at our long-term margin profile, the incremental margins are tracking higher. That's even as we continue to invest with the goal of doubling our core market share and sustaining healthy ARR growth.

In our new growth areas, we're employing the same proven disciplined approach to capital allocation with growing evidence and conviction that each of these 3 new areas can be material businesses long term. We're leaning into the upfront investment to build the product capabilities and go-to-market footprint to scale into a market leader in each area. We're confident we can scale efficiently and drive meaningful contributions to growth over time.

Turning to our quarterly results. ARR grew 30%. Total fintech and subscription gross profit, our recurring gross profit streams increased 34% year-over-year with a total take rate of 98 basis points across SaaS and fintech. That's up 7 basis points from a year ago as we steadily increase adoption, reflecting the growing value our platform provides our customers.

Adjusted EBITDA was $176 million for the quarter, with margins expanding 5 percentage points year-over-year to 35%. GAAP operating income was $84 million. We are consistently growing net adds year-over-year every quarter. In Q3, we added approximately 7,500 net locations, and we ended the quarter with 156,000 total locations, up 23% from a year ago. We remain on track for more net adds in 2025 versus 2024.

We're focused on executing the same algorithm, sustaining consistent market share gains in our core, combined with growing traction in new TAMs, which sets us up well to continue to grow net adds in 2026. SaaS ARR grew 28% year-over-year, driven by location growth and a mid-single-digit increase in SaaS ARPU on an ARR basis. Subscription revenue increased 29% and subscription gross profit grew 32%. SaaS gross margin was 79%, up from 77% a year ago due to continued SaaS COGS optimization.

Payments ARR increased 31% and fintech gross profit grew 35% in the third quarter versus a year ago. GPV was $52 billion, growing 24% year-over-year. GPV per location was up slightly versus last year due to stronger same-store sales trends in the summer. Fintech net take rate was 61 basis points and payments net take rate was 49 basis points. Payments take rate increased 4 basis points from a year ago, benefiting from the same drivers we've seen all year, ongoing cost optimization efforts, small targeted pricing moves and new products, including surcharging.

Nonpayments fintech solutions led by Toast Capital, contributed $58 million in gross profit and 11 basis points in take rate. We continue to enhance our underwriting process, which unlocked incremental origination volume in the quarter. Overall, the program remains healthy and defaults remain in line with our expectations. Excluding $31 million of bad debt and credit-related expenses, operating expenses increased 17% in Q3. We are investing in our highest priority areas to drive durable growth while driving efficiencies throughout the P&L.

Sales and marketing expenses grew 23%, reflecting our healthy location growth and scaling our international and retail go-to-market presence. The added sales capacity positions us to gain market share faster and scale growth in these new TAMs. R&D expenses grew 12%. Innovations like Toast IQ and Advertising are great examples of further differentiation of our core product.

We're also adding capabilities to expand our product market fit across new customer segments and seeding longer-term Horizon 3 opportunities that have the potential to become new growth vectors.

Hardware and professional services gross profit was negative 10% of our recurring gross profit streams. We are leaning into our customer acquisition momentum to establish market share in new towns and continue to drive growth in the core. We're also absorbing higher tariff costs. We're doing this while staying within our guardrails to maintain healthy payback periods as we scale. Adjusted EBITDA was $176 million, a 35% margin. Our Q3 results reflect robust top line growth, driven in part by better-than-expected GPV as well as our continued focus on driving efficiencies throughout the P&L.

GAAP operating income was $84 million, up from $34 million a year ago. That's both from the strength in adjusted EBITDA and our disciplined approach to managing stock-based compensation. Stock-based comp as a percentage of recurring gross profit was 14% in Q3, down 3 percentage points versus a year ago. Free cash flow grew to $153 million in Q3 and $564 million on a trailing 12-month basis, nearly 100% conversion from adjusted EBITDA.

Moving to capital allocation. Year-to-date through the third quarter, we repurchased 1.5 million shares or $54 million. We will continue to be opportunistic based on market conditions and act judiciously in support of building long-term shareholder value.

Now turning to guidance. For the fourth quarter, we expect total fintech and subscription gross profit to grow in the range of 22% to 25% year-over-year and adjusted EBITDA to be $140 million to $150 million. On the back of our strong year-to-date results and momentum heading into Q4, we raised our full year outlook. At the midpoint, we now expect 32% growth in fintech and subscription gross profit and $615 million in adjusted EBITDA.

I'm extremely proud of the financial profile we've built over the last few years. We've doubled ARR while investing in the next wave of businesses to sustain that growth. Our ability to drive strong growth and expand adjusted EBITDA margins at a healthy rate demonstrates the power and leverage of our business model, which is also enabling us to invest in Horizon 2 and 3 growth areas.

We take a deliberate gated approach to investing across our core and Horizon 2 and 3 growth areas. Our new TAM started as a small Horizon 3 bets that we gradually scaled as we gained momentum and saw initial product market fit. We have enough signal across each new TAM that we see a path to market leadership and healthy unit economics at scale. We are investing into that potential to position ourselves for success and to drive long-term growth and shareholder value while gradually expanding margins over time.

As Aman said, the strategy we laid out at Investor Day is working. We remain confident in our medium- and long-term targets. Specifically for 2026 at our multibillion-dollar scale, we will sustain growth over 20%, and our ambition is to exceed that. Our current expectation is that margins will be flat to slightly up year-over-year. That's underpinned by the strong core margin of 40% and conviction to invest behind our new TAMs.

We are still in our 2026 planning cycle, and we'll provide an update in February when we issue guidance. Our commitment to disciplined capital allocation is unwavering. Our long-term margin target is within our control. We are choosing to reinvest in areas we have conviction can be meaningful long-term cash flow generators and add significant shareholder value.

To close out, we had an excellent quarter, and I'm proud of our team for consistently delivering results that outperform our expectations. 2025 is on track to be another year of impressive top line growth and margin expansion. Our momentum in the core is strong. And with new TAM scaling quickly, we're confident Toast is in a position to compound our top line at a healthy rate for the next decade and drive long-term shareholder value.

Now I will turn the call back over to the operator to begin Q&A.