The Travelers Companies, Inc. (TRV) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 21, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Abbe Goldstein - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Alan Schnitzer - Chairman & CEO
Daniel Frey - Executive VP & CFO
Greg Toczydlowski - Executive VP & President of Business Insurance
Jeffrey Klenk - Executive VP and President of Bond & Specialty Insurance
Michael Klein - Executive VP & President of Personal Insurance

Conference Call Participants

Charles Peters - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Ryan Tunis - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
David Motemaden - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Michael Zaremski - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Katie Sakys
Meyer Shields - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Taylor Scott - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Brian Meredith - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Fourth Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded on January 21, 2026.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Abbe Goldstein, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Ms. Goldstein, you may begin.

Abbe Goldstein
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our fourth quarter 2025 results. We released our press release, financial supplement and webcast presentation earlier this morning. All these materials can be found on our website at travelers.com under the Investors section.

Speaking today will be Alan Schnitzer, Chairman and CEO; Dan Frey, CFO; and our 3 segment Presidents, Greg Toczydlowski of Business Insurance, Jeff Klenk of Bond & Specialty Insurance and Michael Klein of Personal Insurance. They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment. They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks, and then we will take your questions.

Before I turn the call over to Alan, I'd like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast presentation. Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors. These factors are described under Forward-Looking Statements in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.

Also in our remarks or responses to questions, we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release, financial supplement and other materials available in the Investors section on our website.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Alan Schnitzer.

Alan Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO

Thank you, Abbe. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We're pleased to report excellent fourth quarter and full year results, with strong and broad-based performance across both underwriting and investments. For both periods, the bottom line results were driven by very strong underlying underwriting income. Particularly given the written margins remain attractive, this is a durable dynamic.

For the quarter, we earned core income of $2.5 billion or $11.13 per diluted share, generating core return on equity of 29.6%. Underwriting income of $2.2 billion pretax increased 21% compared to the prior year quarter, benefiting from higher underlying underwriting income, higher favorable prior year reserve development and a lower level of catastrophe losses. The underlying result was driven by strong net earned premiums and excellent margins. The underlying combined ratio improved nearly 2 points to 82.2%. Underwriting results were strong in all 3 segments.

Our high-quality investment portfolio also continued to perform well, generating after-tax net investment income of $867 million for the quarter, up 10%, driven by strong and reliable returns from our growing fixed income portfolio.

Our terrific underwriting and investment results, together with our strong balance sheet, enabled us to return $1.9 billion of capital to shareholders during the quarter, including $1.7 billion of share repurchases. Importantly, at the same time, we continue to make significant strategic investments in our business. Even after this deployment of capital, adjusted book value per share was up 14% compared to a year ago.

Turning to the top line. Through disciplined marketplace execution across all 3 segments, we grew net written premiums to $10.9 billion in the quarter. In Business Insurance, we grew net written premiums to $5.5 billion. Excluding the property line, we grew domestic net written premiums in the segment by 4%.

As I shared last quarter, the declining property premium is a large account dynamic. We'll continue to be disciplined in terms of risk selection, pricing and terms and conditions.

Renewal premium change in Business Insurance was 6.1%. Renewal premium change in auto, CMP and umbrella remained in the double digits. Excluding the property line, renewal premium change came in strong at just over 8%, including workers' comp, which continues to be low single digits positive. Given the attractive returns, we were pleased that retention in the segment remained strong at 85%.

In Bond & Specialty Insurance, we grew net written premiums to $1.1 billion with excellent retention of 87% and positive renewal premium change in our high-quality management liability business. In our industry-leading surety business, we grew net written premiums from a very strong level in the prior year quarter.

In Personal Insurance, net written premiums of $4.2 billion reflected continued strong renewal premium change in Homeowners and higher new business in auto. You'll hear more shortly from Greg, Jeff and Michael about our segment results.

Before I turn the call over to Dan, I'd like to take a step back and talk about what's driving this performance and what's ahead. About 10 years ago, we embarked on an innovation strategy designed to position our business to grow at industry-leading returns with low volatility.

As you can see on Slide 18 of our webcast presentation, over the past decade, we've grown our top line at a compound annual rate of 7% while improving our underlying profitability by almost 8 points. Notwithstanding a significant increase in our technology spending, that improvement in underlying profitability includes a 3-point or 10% improvement in our expense ratio. As a consequence of all that, compared to 10 years ago, our underlying underwriting income is more than 4x what it had been, our cash flow from operations has more than doubled and our investment portfolio has grown by 50% to more than $100 billion.

As you can see on Slide 19, over that same period, core return on equity has averaged more than 1,000 basis points over the 10-year treasury at industry low volatility, and we've grown earnings per share on average by 12%. In short, the execution of our strategy has been exceptional. We think about that chapter as Innovation 1.0.

Our success with Innovation 1.0 is the result of having done 3 difficult things very well, identifying the initiatives that really matter and passing on the merely good ideas that don't, executing effectively and capturing the value of what we built.

Over the decade, we developed the competitive advantage of an innovation skill set. Now we're bringing all that hard one know-how to Innovation 2.0 at Travelers, powered by AI and not too far off quantum computing.

The P&C industry is well positioned to benefit from AI across the entire value chain. This generation of AI can understand and execute on the complex stakeholder interactions, well-defined processes, data-intensive workflows and massive amounts of unstructured data that characterize our industry. It gains compound over many, many interactions. In that context, Travelers is particularly well positioned.

As an industry leader, we bring differentiating domain expertise. Because AI amplifies existing strength, leaders in the domain are best positioned to use it to drive improvement. In addition, we have decades of high-quality data from millions of transactions and interactions and the scale to invest at significant levels as AI and technology continue to segment the market.

We have thousands of engineers, data scientists and analysts building AI and other sophisticated technology solutions. Dozens of scale generative AI tools are already in production. Millions of transactions are now automated. More than 20,000 of our colleagues use AI tools on a regular basis, and agentic AI isn't a future aspiration, it's embedded in our business operations today.

Last week, we and Anthropic announced a partnership to empower 10,000 of our engineers, data scientists, analysts and product owners with personalized context-aware and integrated AI assistance. This initiative will enhance and accelerate the development of software, analytics and predictive models.

In extensive testing, we achieved significantly improved engineering output and meaningful productivity gains. We expect that this will result in faster and more cost-effective delivery of new capabilities across Travelers, everything from product development to new business prospecting, to underwriting speed and quality, the agent and customer service and more, benefiting our business, our customers and our distribution partners.

In our claim organization, more than half of all claims are now eligible for straight-through processing, with customers adopting straight-through processing about 2/3 of the time. Another 15% of all claims are processed with advanced digital tools. All of those percentages are growing.

To accommodate customers who still prefer to call in to report a claim, just last week, we launched a natural language generative AI voice agent that takes first notice of loss by phone. Early customer adoption is exceeding our expectation. The results are tangible.

In our claim organization, investments we've made, including an automation, straight-through processing and analytics, refine indemnity payouts and drive operational efficiencies. It's worth pointing out that the efficiency gains in our claim organization come through loss adjustment expense, benefiting the loss ratio.

As just one example, our claim call center population is down by 1/3. And this year, we'll be consolidating 4 claim call centers down to 2. And of course, we're deploying AI broadly across the business. Other use cases enhance underwriting decision quality and efficiency and improve the experience for customers, agents, brokers and employees.

You'll hear some examples from Greg, Jeff and Michael. We're still early in this transformation, which means the benefits, more effective underwriting, improved operating leverage and profitable growth will continue to build.

To sum it up, our results this year and over time reflect the power of our earnings engine, fueled by the disciplined execution of our strategy. For the full year, core income was up 26% to $6.3 billion or $27.59 per diluted share, generating core return on equity of 19.4%. And during the year, we grew adjusted book value per share by 14% after returning $4.2 billion of excess capital to shareholders and investing more than $1.5 billion in cutting-edge AI and other technology initiatives.

Our operational and financial success in the face of another year of elevated catastrophe losses for the industry supports our ability to be there for our customers. In 2025, we handled 1.5 million claims. That's about one every 20 seconds and paid out more than $23 billion in claim payments. We also met our objective of closing 90% of claims arising out of catastrophes within 30 days. 2026 and in future years, we'll be there to help our customers and communities recover and to enable individuals and businesses to thrive.

Looking ahead, we're also very well positioned to continue generating substantial shareholder value. The durability of our strong underlying business performance provides a powerful foundation for continued strong bottom line results, leading returns and strong cash flows. Operating from this position of strength, we remain highly confident in the outlook for Travelers in 2026 and beyond.

And with that, I'm pleased to turn the call over to Dan.

Daniel Frey
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Alan. Core income for the fourth quarter was $2.5 billion and core return on equity was 29.6%, as we once again delivered excellent financial results on a consolidated basis and in all 3 segments. The full year underwriting results were also excellent on both an underlying and as-reported basis, and net investment income was once again higher than a year ago.

The strong fourth quarter finish brings full year core income to $6.3 billion and full year core ROE to 19.4%. In Q4, we generated higher levels of written and earned premiums compared to a year ago while delivering excellent combined ratios on both the reported and underlying basis.

At 82.2%, the underlying combined ratio marked its fifth consecutive quarter below 85%. The combination of higher premiums and the improved underlying combined ratio led to a 15% increase in after-tax underlying underwriting income. That brings the full year after-tax underlying underwriting results to $5.5 billion, up 23% from the prior year. The growth in underlying underwriting income in recent years is worth an extra minute of commentary.

In 2022, we reported a very strong $2.1 billion after tax. Through the successful and disciplined execution of our strategy, we grew that figure to $3.2 billion in 2023 and to $4.5 billion in 2024 and now to $5.5 billion for 2025. Those earnings are what drives strong cash flow from operations, which, after averaging about $4 billion for the 10 years from 2011 through 2020, surpassed $9 billion in 2024 and reached $10.6 billion in 2025.

Expense ratio for the fourth quarter was 28.4%, bringing the full year expense ratio to 28.5% as expected. We continue to expect the expense ratio for 2026 to be right around 28.5%. Catastrophe losses in the quarter were $95 million pretax.

Turning to prior year reserve development. We had total net favorable development of $321 million pretax in the quarter, with all 3 segments contributing.

In Business Insurance, net favorable PYD of $205 million was driven by favorability in workers' comp. In Bond & Specialty, net favorable PYD of $30 million was driven by better-than-expected results in fidelity and surety. Personal Insurance had $86 million of net favorable PYD with favorability in both auto and home.

After-tax net investment income of $867 million increased by 10% from the prior year quarter. Fixed maturity NII was again the driver of the increase, reflecting both the benefit of higher invested assets and higher average yields.

Driven by the strong cash flows I referenced earlier, during 2025, we grew our investment portfolio by approximately $7.5 billion to $106 billion. As of December 31, new money rates were about 70 basis points above the yield embedded in the portfolio.

In terms of our outlook for fixed income NII for 2026, including earnings from short-term securities, we expect approximately $3.3 billion after tax, beginning with about $800 million in the first quarter and growing to about $870 million in the fourth quarter. As with underwriting income, the growth in investment income over the past several years has been significant. Our 2026 outlook represents nearly twice as much fixed income NII as we delivered in 2021 just 5 years ago.

Page 22 of the webcast presentation provides information about our January 1 catastrophe reinsurance renewal, and we're very pleased with the changes for 2026. Our long-standing cat XoL treaty continues to provide coverage for both single cat events and the aggregation of losses from multiple cat events. The per occurrence loss deductible is unchanged at $100 million. And for 2026, we dropped the attachment point to $3 billion compared to the $4 billion attachment point we had in 2025.

We believe an all perils cat aggregate is the most efficient way to protect the balance sheet. And the combination of our industry outperformance, refined reinsurance structures and more favorable reinsurance pricing have allowed us to meaningfully improve our coverage with only a modest increase to our total ceded premium costs. We also renewed the enhanced casualty reinsurance program first introduced for 2025. We were once again able to purchase working layer coverage on a roughly margin-neutral basis.

On Page 23 of the webcast presentation, we have again provided both a summary of the seasonality of our cat losses over the prior decade and a view of our cat plan by quarter for 2026. As you can see, the 2026 cat plan in terms of combined ratio points is higher than both the 5- and 10-year averages.

As a reminder for your modeling in terms of seasonality, as you can see from the data, the second quarter has historically been our largest cat quarter. Also of interest for 2026, we continue to value our relationship with Fidelis and are very pleased to have once again renewed our 20% quota share with them. The renewal includes the same loss ratio cap we've had in place since the quota share began in 2023.

Interest rates decreased during the quarter, and as a result, our net unrealized investment loss decreased from $2 billion after tax at September 30 to $1.5 billion after tax at December 31. Adjusted book value per share, which excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses, was $158.01 at year-end, up 14% from a year ago.

Turning to capital management. We returned $1.9 billion of capital to our shareholders this quarter, comprising share repurchases of $1.65 billion and dividends of $244 million. In our prepared remarks last quarter, we indicated that we expected to execute roughly $1.6 billion of share repurchases in the first quarter of 2026, including the use of about $700 million from the sale of our Canadian operations, which did close as planned on January 2.

Even with the increased level of share repurchases we just executed in Q4, given the strong finish to the 2025 year, we now expect repurchases of around $1.8 billion in Q1. Of course, the actual amount and timing of repurchases will depend on a number of factors, including cat events and other quarterly earnings impacts as well as other factors we disclosed in our SEC filings.

I'd like to make one other comment on capital management to help with your models. Given the growth we've generated over the past several years and the outlook for continued growth, we're now more likely to issue debt every year, assuming we're comfortable with market conditions. Our recent history has been to issue debt every other year. Annual debt issuance allows us to maintain a more consistent debt-to-capital ratio.

Recapping our results for 2025, we're very pleased to have delivered net and core income of $6.3 billion, core return on equity of 19.4%. We ended the year with our all-time high in adjusted book value per share and with our largest investment portfolio ever. In short, we're extremely well positioned for 2026 and beyond.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Greg for a discussion of Business Insurance.

Greg Toczydlowski
Executive VP & President of Business Insurance

Thanks, Dan. Business Insurance had another very strong quarter, rounding out another terrific year in terms of financial results, execution in the marketplace and progress on our strategic initiatives.

Segment income for the quarter was nearly $1.3 billion and up more than $100 million from the prior year quarter. Improvement from the prior year was driven by higher net investment income, higher favorable prior year reserve development and lower catastrophes.

The all-in combined ratio of 84.4% was a great result and about 1 point better than the prior year quarter. We're once again particularly pleased with our exceptional underlying combined ratio of 87%. The underlying loss ratio was the second best quarterly result ever, trailing only last year's fourth quarter record. The expense ratio remained excellent at 29.3%.

Turning to the top line. Net written premiums reached an all-time fourth quarter high of more than $5.5 billion. We grew our leading Select and Middle Market businesses by 4% and 3%, respectively. These 2 markets make up almost 3/4 of our net written premiums for Business Insurance in the quarter.

We saw a decline in national property premiums, reflecting our disciplined execution in terms of risk selection, pricing and terms and conditions. Excluding the property line, domestic net written premiums were up 4%. As always, our focus is on writing business that meets our risk profile and underwriting standards and where we can get an appropriate price with terms that reflect the exposures perils.

As for production across the segment, pricing remained attractive with renewal premium change of just over 6%. Excluding the property line, RPC was strong at 8%. Renewal premium change was positive in all lines, including property and double digits in CMP, umbrella and auto. Retention remained excellent at 85% and new business of $675 million was up 6% from the prior year quarter.

We're pleased with these production results and our field's execution of our proven segmentation strategy. Across the book, pricing and retention results this quarter reflect excellent execution, aligning price, terms and conditions with environmental trends for each line.

As for the individual businesses, in Select, renewal premium change and renewal rate change both remained strong for the quarter and about flat with third quarter levels. Retention was up 2 points from the fourth quarter of last year as we continue to wind down our CMP risk return optimization efforts. Lastly, new business was up 6% from the fourth quarter of last year to a healthy $139 million.

In our core Middle Market business, renewal premium change remained attractive at 6.6%. Price increases remain broad-based as we achieved higher prices on about 3/4 of our Middle Market accounts. And at the same time, the granular execution was excellent with meaningful spread from our best-performing accounts to our lower-performing accounts.

To a large degree, the sequential decline in RPC was impacted by the property line, where RPC remains positive, healthy and reflective of attractive returns. We're pleased that Middle Market retention remained exceptional at 87% and new business of $395 million was up 11% to an all-time fourth quarter high.

As we close out 2025, let me provide a little color on full year results before turning the call over to Jeff. We're very pleased to report segment income of nearly $3.7 billion, an underlying combined ratio of 88% and top line of $22.7 billion. This was the third year in a row where we delivered an underlying combined ratio of less than 90%.

As for production, renewal premium change and retention both remained historically high, while new business premiums approaching $3 billion reached an all-time best. These sustained exceptional results are a direct reflection of our strong value proposition as well as the successful execution of our thoughtful and deliberate strategies.

Beyond our execution excellence, we're pleased with the contributions we're getting from our ongoing strategic initiatives. The decision support tools we're putting in the hands of our underwriters at the point of sale, including models that drive risk characteristics, refine technical pricing and summarize historical model loss experience results in better risk selection, pricing and terms and conditions.

In addition, we're encouraged by the impact we're seeing from our product and user experience initiatives, including how well they've been received in the market. Our new BOP product is now fully rolled out, and our new auto product is live in 46 states. Both products contain industry-leading segmentation, which contributes to profitable growth. We also continue to enhance the insights around our submissions based on quality and appetite that allow our underwriters to focus on those new business opportunities that we most want to add to the portfolio.

We're pleased with our progress with GenAI. We're building and executing a robust portfolio of GenAI initiatives that will enable enhanced risk assessment and selection, ultimately improving loss experience as well as drive gains in productivity and efficiency and improve our industry-leading experience for our agents and brokers.

As just one example, we've recently rolled out GenAI agents to efficiently mine both internal and external data sources to better understand and synthesize the risk characteristics and ensure appropriate business classification. This capability both accelerates the underwriting process and results in improved risk classification and segmented pricing.

To sum up, we feel terrific about our performance and financial results in 2025. We're excited about what we're investing in for the future, and we have the best people in the business. And they're not only executing with excellence in the market today, but they're also helping to shape the transformation of our industry. In short, we're well positioned for continued profitable growth.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff.

Jeffrey Klenk
Executive VP and President of Bond & Specialty Insurance

Thank you, Greg, and good morning, everyone. Bond & Specialty ended the year with another strong quarter on both the top and bottom lines.

In the fourth quarter, we generated segment income of $236 million and an excellent combined ratio of 83%. A strong underlying combined ratio of 85.7% was a little more than 1 point better than the prior year quarter.

Turning to the top line. We grew net written premiums by 4% in the quarter to $1.1 billion. In our high-quality domestic management liability business, renewal premium change was 2.8%, while retention remained strong at 87%. We're very pleased with the progress we've achieved to improve pricing through our purposeful and segmented initiatives while continuing to deliver strong retention.

As we expected, new business was lower than the fourth quarter of 2024. As a reminder, this is the final quarter of year-over-year new business impact from our Corvus acquisition, with most Corvus production now reported as renewal premium.

Turning to our market-leading surety business. Net written premiums increased from the very strong prior year quarter, reflecting strong demand for our products and unparalleled value-added services. So we're pleased to have once again delivered strong results in Bond & Specialty this quarter.

Reflecting on the full year, we're also very pleased with the performance of our business in 2025. In our management liability business, we successfully navigated ongoing soft market conditions, and we're among the first carriers to drive higher pricing to improve product returns where needed. Despite market headwinds, we drove profitable account and premium growth by leveraging our investments in advanced analytics, including the automated delivery of next-generation sophisticated pricing models.

Our AI investments to automate submission intake for new business reduced our time to ingest submissions from hours to just minutes, and we recently extended automation capabilities to renewal workflows. We've also made important investments in sales effectiveness and enhancements to our product offerings.

In capitalizing on our Corvus acquisition, we've successfully extended cyber risk services to customers across our portfolio. This includes always-on threat monitoring with same-day alerts, continuous dark web surveillance, 24/7 access to a tailored policyholder dashboard and personalized security consultations from our in-house cyber experts. As we've expected, these capabilities are helping our customers to more effectively manage cyber risks and are mitigating our exposure to evolving cyber vulnerabilities.

In our surety business, we drove solid growth by capitalizing on our industry-leading expertise and premier value-added service offerings. We've entered into new and expanded distribution arrangements domestically and internationally that position us for continued growth. We've more closely aligned and integrated our outstanding Canadian surety operation, which contributes to our position as the leading surety in North America.

And in our commercial surety flow business, we've leveraged AI to enhance distribution, submission and fulfillment experiences, improving efficiency and fueling growth. All of these investments and initiatives and the terrific execution by our outstanding team drove another strong year of profitable growth in Bond & Specialty, and we're excited about the opportunities that lie ahead.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Michael.

Michael Klein
Executive VP & President of Personal Insurance

Thanks, Jeff. I'm very pleased to share that Personal Insurance generated segment income of more than $1 billion in the quarter and a combined ratio of 74%. Both results reflect the strong underlying fundamentals of our business.

For the full year, Personal Insurance generated over $2 billion of segment income and a combined ratio of 89.5%. These results improved compared to the prior year, notwithstanding significant losses from the California wildfires, reflecting the strength of our diversified book of business and our disciplined approach to selecting, pricing and managing risk.

Net written premiums in the fourth quarter were comparable to the prior year, reflecting strong renewal premium change in Homeowners and Other and higher auto new business premiums. Full year net written premium increased 2% to a record $17.4 billion.

In auto, the fourth quarter combined ratio was 89.4%, reflecting a strong underlying combined ratio and favorable net prior year development. The underlying combined ratio of 92.2% improved just over 4 points compared to the prior year quarter, driven by continued frequency -- continued favorable frequency across coverages with sustained moderation in severity, partially offset by the impact of continued moderation in earned pricing. This quarter's underlying combined ratio included a 3-point benefit related to the re-estimation of prior quarters in the current year.

The full year auto combined ratio of 85.7% represents improvement of over 9 points compared to the prior year as we experienced favorability in both frequency and severity.

In Homeowners and Other, the fourth quarter combined ratio of 60.3% improved by 7.5 points compared to the prior year quarter, primarily as a result of improvement in the underlying combined ratio and lower catastrophe losses. The underlying combined ratio of 59.9% improved by 5.5 points compared to the prior year quarter, reflecting the impact of our actions to achieve target returns. The year-over-year favorability was primarily related to the benefit of property earned pricing as well as favorability in non-catastrophe weather and non-weather losses.

Stepping back, the 2025 full year property combined ratio of 93% was a notable improvement compared to the prior year. This reflects our actions to manage exposures in high catastrophe risk geographies, along with favorable non-catastrophe weather losses.

Turning to production. Our results reflect continued disciplined execution to position our diversified portfolio to deliver long-term profitable growth. In domestic auto, retention of 82% increased slightly from recent quarters. Renewal premium change of 2.2% continued to moderate as expected and will continue to do so in 2026, reflecting our sustained profitability and our focus on generating growth. Auto new business premium was up year-over-year as new business momentum continued in states less impacted by our property actions.

In domestic Homeowners and Other, retention of 84% remained relatively consistent with recent quarters. Renewal premium change remained strong at 16.7% as we concluded our efforts to align replacement costs with insured values.

We continue to expect RPC to drop into the single digits beginning in early 2026, reflecting improved profitability and values that have now largely aligned with replacement costs.

Quarterly new business premium and policies in force declined compared to the prior year. These production results reflect the deliberate choices we've made to improve profitability and manage volatility in property.

Over the past few years, we've executed a granular strategy to reposition our portfolio to optimize our risk return profile. The results have been meaningful. We reduced property policies in force by 10%, with most of that decrease coming from high cat geographies, reflecting disciplined risk selection and concentrated actions to manage volatility and reduce local market aggregations of exposure. While these actions impacted auto policies in force, the impact was muted as we grew auto in many of the markets less affected by our property actions, demonstrating our ability to sustain a competitive position where portfolio economics remain favorable. Overall, the net impact of our actions is shifting the portfolio back toward a better balance between auto and property.

Looking ahead to 2026, as we wind down many of our actions in property, we're focused on maintaining this progress by deploying property capacity in support of writing package business.

The strength of our 2025 results reflects years of disciplined execution and strategic investment. Since year-end 2020, net written premiums grew $6 billion to $17.4 billion, while we generated an average combined ratio of 98%. Over that same period, our domestic auto book grew both in terms of PIF and premium. And in our Homeowners portfolio, our actions to address profitability, geographic distribution and terms and conditions have meaningfully improved risk-adjusted returns.

In addition, we continue to invest in and deploy strategic capabilities. As just one example, we're leveraging artificial intelligence to make our renewal underwriting process more effective and efficient. We start with a proprietary AI-enabled predictive model that scores every account in the property portfolio. Based on this score, accounts with the highest probable risk of loss are presented to underwriters for review. From there, our renewal underwriting platform leverages generative AI to consolidate data into summaries of relevant actionable information for our underwriters to evaluate, with early results showing more than a 30% reduction in average handle time. The net result is that our underwriters focus their efforts on decisions most likely to improve profitability and do so more efficiently.

To sum up, thanks to the continued diligent efforts of our team and with support from our distribution partners, Personal Insurance continues to deliver on a long track record of profitably growing our business over time.

Now I'll turn the call back over to Abbe.

Abbe Goldstein
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

Thanks, Michael, and we are ready to open up for Q&A.

