The Toro Company (TTC) Q4 2025 Earnings Call December 17, 2025 11:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Heather Hille
Richard Olson - CEO & Chairman
Angela Drake - VP & CFO
Edric Funk - President & COO

Conference Call Participants

David S. MacGregor - Longbow Research LLC
Joshua Wilson - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Edward Jackson - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Toro Company's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Gigi, and I'll be your coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference, Heather Hille, Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Investor Relations. Please proceed, Ms. Hille.

Heather Hille

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for the Toro Company's Fourth Quarter and Year-end 2025 Earnings Conference Call. I'm Heather Hille, Head of Investor Relations.

On the line with me today are Rick Olson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Edric Funk, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Angie Drake, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Rick, Edric and Angie will provide an overview of our fourth quarter and full year results, which were released earlier this morning and discuss our priorities and outlook for fiscal 2026. Following their remarks, we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.

As a reminder, any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those described in today's earnings release, investor presentation and most recent SEC filings and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these statements. Also in our remarks, we'll refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe are important in evaluating the company's performance.

Reconciliations of all non-GAAP numbers to the most directly comparable GAAP numbers are included in this morning's press release, which, along with the fourth quarter presentation containing supplemental information is posted in the Investor Information section of our corporate website.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Rick.

Richard Olson
CEO & Chairman

Thanks, Heather, and good morning, everyone. Our team remains focused on leveraging our diverse portfolio of leading brands, controlling what we can control and driving operational excellence. In doing so, we delivered fourth quarter sales and adjusted EPS that exceeded our expectations, achieved full year professional segment earnings margin of 19.4%, demonstrating the resilience and quality of our core businesses that represent about 80% of our portfolio, generated record free cash flow of $578 million, a conversion rate of 146%, returned $441 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, increased our AMP savings target to $125 million by the end of 2026 and continued investing in technology and innovations that enhance our customer productivity.

We beat our sales expectation for the fourth quarter, reporting consolidated net sales of $1.07 billion. Fourth quarter Professional segment margin grew to 19.2%. This increase was driven by sustained momentum in the underground construction business and better-than-anticipated growth in snow and ice management. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter were $0.91. This reflected year-over-year earnings improvement in both segments, offset by higher expense related to the restoration of employee incentive compensation.

For the full year, we hit the higher end of our net sales guidance reporting total consolidated net sales of $4.5 billion. That was down 1.6% from fiscal 2024 with a significant portion of this decrease attributable to the strategic divestitures of company-owned dealers and our pulp product line. We delivered adjusted earnings per diluted share of $4.20, beating both our current year EPS guidance of about $4.15 and $4.17 reported last year. These results were incredibly strong given the challenging environment of the past 2 years.

Through our focus on key growth markets and deliberate actions to improve productivity, we are strengthening our competitive position and accelerating our performance. Specifically, we continue to invest in our golf and grounds and underground specialty construction businesses, reflecting a multiyear secular growth trajectory we anticipate for those markets.

Our acquisition of Tornado Infrastructure Equipment, which closed last week is a great example of the strategic investments we are making to better serve customers facing complex infrastructure projects. Tornado is a leading manufacturer of vacuum excavation and industrial equipment solutions for the underground construction, power transmission and energy markets. Their products are designed to safely excavate around critical infrastructure to minimize the risk of damage. We are excited to expand our geographic presence and product portfolio as we welcome Tornado to the Toro Company.

Additionally, we continue to protect both our profit margins and market competitiveness through significant productivity improvement and thoughtful net price realization. Our multiyear amplifying maximum productivity, or AMP program has already delivered annualized run rate cost savings of $86 million. Some of the actions that are driving these savings include strategic facility closures, reducing our operational footprint by more than 1 million square feet, a reduction in salaried workforce of nearly 15%. And divestitures of noncore businesses and product lines totaling approximately $60 million in revenue.

These actions, combined with thoughtful supply chain strategies and selective price increases enabled us to mitigate the effect of tariffs and maintain strong margins in fiscal 2025. Additionally, we are pleased to announce that we are increasing our AMP run rate savings target to $125 million or more by the end of 2026, up from our original target of at least $100 million. We're also carefully managing inventory levels across the spectrum from raw materials to finished goods. As our lead times have recovered to more normal levels, customers are ordering closer to need, positioning us for a clean start as we enter 2026.

Largely due to improvements in working capital, our free cash flow for the year was a record $578 million. This resulted in a free cash flow conversion rate of 146%. And we continue to launch products at the forefront of innovation and alternative power, smart connected products and autonomous solutions that differentiate our offerings and drive significant customer value.

Our Autonomous GeoLink Fairway Mower is receiving very positive reviews. It's another excellent example of our expanding technology portfolio. In particular, golf course and commercial customers who are facing labor shortages and budget constraints have expressed their excitement about the tremendous efficiencies inherent in the Mower's Autonomous capabilities. Customers are also enthusiastic about our Toro GrandStand Multi Force, a stand-on mower that allows them to attach a plow, power broom and bagging system. The result is higher productivity across all seasons.

And for landscapers and homeowners with acreage, we recently introduced our Exmark Radius, a zero-turn mower with product styling and features that mirror the highly successful Lazer Z. Collectively, our actions are enhancing our customer productivity, strengthening our operations and market-leading position and sustaining our profitable growth. I want to thank our employees and channel partners for their diligence in advancing our product innovations and technology-driven solutions and supporting our efficiency initiatives.

Now Angie will share additional insights for our fourth quarter and full year results and provide our outlook for 2026.

Angela Drake
VP & CFO

Thank you, Rick, and good morning, everyone. We delivered strong fourth quarter results that exceeded our expectations and demonstrated the strength of our diversified portfolio, market-leading innovation and commitment to operational excellence.

As a result, our full year 2025 sales and earnings also outperformed our guidance. Both the professional and residential segments contributed stronger-than-anticipated sales across multiple businesses, which drove favorable year-over-year operating leverage in the fourth quarter.

Professional segment net sales in the fourth quarter were $910 million, virtually equal to last year's exceptionally strong performance. Net price realization and higher shipments of underground construction and snow and ice products nearly offset anticipated lower shipments in golf, grounds and zero turn mowers, as well as the impact of prior year divestitures.

Professional segment earnings for the fourth quarter were $174.7 million, up 2.9% year-over-year. The resulting earnings margin in the quarter was 19.2%, up 60 basis points from last year, primarily due to net price realization and productivity improvements. This was partially offset by higher material and manufacturing costs and lower net sales volume.

For the full year, professional segment net sales, which comprised about 80% of the total company, rose 1.9% to $3.62 billion. Full year professional segment earnings were $702.5 million and earnings margin was 19.4%. This was up from $638.9 million and 18% in fiscal 2024, underscoring our commitment to cost improvement and our purposeful cost reduction measures.

In our Residential segment, fourth quarter net sales were $147 million, which were 5.1% lower than the prior year, but exceeded our expectations due to net price realization and higher shipments of snow products, reflecting channel enthusiasm for pre-season stocking.

Additionally, through our deliberate measures to reduce costs, improve productivity and achieve pricing, we delivered higher-than-expected fourth quarter residential segment earnings and outperformed prior year results by $13 million. For the full year, residential segment net sales were $858.4 million, down 14% from prior year. Full year earnings were $35.8 million, 4.2% of segment net sales. This compares with fiscal 2024 earnings and earnings margin of $78.4 million and 7.9%, respectively.

Now turning to our consolidated results for the fourth quarter and full year. Consolidated net sales for the quarter of $1.07 billion were down 0.9% from Q4 last year. Due to lower shipments in both segments and prior year divestitures partially offset by net price realization.

For the full year, net sales were $4.51 billion, essentially in line with 2024 net sales, adjusting for the impact of divestitures. Our fourth quarter adjusted gross margin of 34.5% improved from 32.3% in the prior fiscal year. Primarily due to net price realization and productivity improvements, partially offset by lower net sales volume, higher material and manufacturing costs and product mix.

Full year adjusted gross margin was 34.1% compared to 33.9% in fiscal 2024. This increase was primarily due to net price realization and productivity improvements partially offset by lower net sales volume, higher material and manufacturing costs and inventory valuation adjustments. SG&A expense for both the quarter and the year was 22.5% of net sales, a 30 basis point increase from Q4 a year ago and up 80 basis points from full year 2024. The change for both periods was primarily due to lower net sales volume, partially offset by cost savings.

In summary, our fourth quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share were $0.91, compared to $0.95 in the prior year. The change was driven by higher expense related to restored employee incentives, mostly offset by an increase in both professional and residential segment earnings. For the full year, adjusted earnings per diluted share were $4.20 compared to $4.17 in fiscal 2024. Primary drivers include higher professional segment earnings and share repurchases, partially offset by lower residential segment earnings.

Turning to our cash flow and balance sheet. Our free cash flow for the year was a record $587 million, a meaningful year-over-year increase that was largely due to net favorable changes in working capital. This resulted in a free cash flow conversion rate of 146%. Additionally, we returned $441 million to shareholders in fiscal 2025 through dividends and share repurchases demonstrating continued confidence in our ability to generate cash and our commitment to value creation.

Our balance sheet remains strong, and it continues to provide financial flexibility. Our leverage ratio of 1.3x is healthy and well within our stated target range. We continue to take a disciplined approach to capital deployment. By prioritizing strategic investments that drive profitable growth through both organic opportunities and acquisitions, we have generated strong positive momentum in our return on invested capital.

Looking ahead to fiscal 2026. We are thoughtfully balancing the strength and growth opportunities within our businesses with the ongoing pressures of the macro environment. We are excited about our recent acquisition of Tornado and the longer-term growth trajectory of the vacuum excavation industry, and we are poised to execute on the continued strong demand for our underground construction business. This demand is being driven by new infrastructure installation projects and ongoing maintenance of existing networks.

We are continuing to leverage our leadership in golf course equipment and irrigation and are being proactive in attracting new customers and opportunities for our grounds business. Recent snowfall in key regions across the country is an encouraging find. And we are prepared to capitalize on the favorable weather trends, and we remain committed to delivering on our new higher AMP target by 2027.

At the same time, we remain cautious about macro factors, including inflation and interest rates that may continue to pressure consumer confidence. However, we believe the steps we have taken position us well to benefit as the environment improves.

For fiscal 2026, we expect annual total company net sales to rise 2% to 5% reflecting professional segment sales that are expected to grow mid-single digits and residential segment sales that are expected to decline low to mid-single digits. We anticipate total company adjusted gross margin to improve in 2026, underscoring the strength of our business model and our ability to navigate cost pressures, while continuing to invest in innovation. And we expect this adjusted gross margin improvement, combined with our continued focus on productivity and prudent management of tariffs and other inflationary pressures to drive higher adjusted operating earnings margin for the year.

This total company outlook reflects a range of 18.5% to 19.5% Professional segment earnings margin in 2026 and a range of 6% to 8% Residential segment earnings margin as we build on our 2025 progress. Our guidance also reflects mid-single-digit earnings growth for the near term with a clear path to higher growth over time, as we execute on margin expansion and innovation priorities.

As a result, we expect full year 2026 adjusted earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $4.35 to $4.50. This assumes interest expense of approximately $65 million and adjusted effective tax rate of about 21% and capital expenditures of $90 million to $100 million.

Furthermore, we remain committed to returning value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and are confident in our ability to generate cash. As we announced last week, we have raised our quarterly dividend from $0.38 to $0.39 and our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 6 million shares of TTC's common stock. We expect to repurchase shares at a rate similar to last year and anticipate a free cash flow conversion rate of greater than 110% in 2026.

Our outlook for first quarter performance reflects the natural seasonality of our business and our current conservative view of economic factors, including homeowner and consumer sentiment. We expect total company net sales in Q1 to be up slightly from prior year with pro segment sales up mid-single digits and res segment sales down high teens. Professional segment earnings margin is expected to be flat in the quarter and residential segment earnings margin is expected to be lower.

For the total company, adjusted earnings per diluted share are expected to be flat to slightly lower than last year's first quarter. As a reminder, from an earnings perspective, our first quarter is typically the smallest of the fiscal year and can carry seasonal cost headwinds. With the growing traction of our AMP initiatives, we expect margin momentum to build as we move through 2026. Though the environment continues to pose some challenges, we are steadfast in our approach to driving operational excellence and thoughtfully managing factors within our control.

We are confident this discipline, combined with continued innovations that improve our customers' productivity will drive sustained profitable growth and deliver meaningful shareholder value.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Edric.

Edric Funk
President & COO

Thank you, Angie, and good morning, everyone. As evidenced by our better-than-expected results for the year, our decisive actions are enabling us to increase the resilience of our business and to build momentum for future growth. We're strengthening our product portfolio and competitive positioning by strategically investing in technology solutions and markets with strong multiyear growth drivers like golf, grounds and underground construction.

Our pipeline of new products and features that provide value for our customers is robust. And we're excited by the future potential of several innovations that are still early in their growth life cycle. For example, golf course superintendents will benefit from two new Software-as-a-Service irrigation products. Our Lynx Drive Central Control System is a mobile version of our industry-leading platform that is changing the way superintendents manage golf course irritation. It gives users increased flexibility and control allowing them to address issues in real time and to improve their efficiency through enhanced communication capabilities, both while on the move.

Our AI-enabled spatial adjust software, which was released in November, integrates with Toro irrigation systems for even more precise water management. It works with TurfRad, soil moisture sensors, to optimize the amount of water used on fairways. Automatically recommending daily water application rates to achieve the user-defined target moisture level. Feedback from users who participated in our pilot program was extremely positive, including frequent mention of both improved term uniformity and playing conditions.

Driven by what we expect to be a third consecutive year of record U.S. golf rounds played, we have experienced exceptional growth in golf equipment sales and irrigation projects.

In addition to the continued momentum in golf, we're also increasing our focus on grounds opportunities within municipalities, universities, sports fields and other markets. We're also actively pursuing opportunities to capitalize on the growing demand for underground obstruction equipment, which is being propelled by aging infrastructure, the growth in data centers and energy and telecommunications projects.

Our Tornado acquisition is an exciting development in this space, building on our existing relationship with Tornado as a strategic supplier to Ditch Witch. It enables us to expand our reach and capitalize on accelerated growth in vacuum excavation. Furthermore, we're executing on our commitment to operational excellence through disciplined implementation of our AMP productivity program and optimization of our global supply chain.

Our efforts have helped us mitigate increases in materials and manufacturing costs, streamline our supply chain operations, and better align our production capacity with demand. We also continue to prioritize our relationships with key partners, and we're committed to building on our legacy of engagement to ensure mutual success and customer satisfaction. Last month, we hosted our Toro University hands-on training event for more than 300 members of our distributor partners who span geographies and markets. We equip them to sell and service our new products so that customers realize the exceptional value we collectively deliver.

In addition, we recently celebrated an incredible 100-year relationship with a key distributor partner, Smith Turf & Irrigation. This long-tenured partnership is a testament to the importance we place on building and sustaining strong relationships. As we look ahead, the factors that contributed to our growth for 111 years will continue to be critical drivers of our performance. Investing in growth markets and innovation, maintaining our operational discipline and focus on productivity improvement and keeping our customers' needs front and center with support from loyal partners.

All of these remain key priorities of the Toro Company's strategy and culture and they are absolutely foundational to our future success.

Now Rick has a few closing remarks.

Richard Olson
CEO & Chairman

Thank you, Edric. To close, I want to emphasize our confidence in the Toro Company's trajectory. The steps we are taking to enhance our customers' performance and increase our efficiency will strengthen our competitive advantage and drive continued profitable growth.

In addition, we are being proactive and purposeful as we maintain a disciplined approach to capital allocation, balance sheet flexibility and strong cash flow. Together with our strategic focus on key growth markets and operational improvements, these actions give us confidence that the Toro Company is positioned to deliver significant value to all our stakeholders for many years to come.

Now, Edric, Angie and I would be happy to take your questions.

