United Parcel Service, Inc. (UPS) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 27, 2026 8:30 AM EST

Company Participants

PJ Guido - Investor Relations Officer
Carol Tomé - CEO & Director
Brian Dykes - Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President
Nando Cesarone - Executive VP & President of U.S. and UPS Airline
Kathleen Gutmann - Executive VP and President of International, Healthcare & Supply Chain Solutions
Matthew Guffey - Executive VP & Chief Commercial & Strategy Officer

Conference Call Participants

David Vernon - Bernstein Institutional Services LLC, Research Division
Thomas Wadewitz - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Ken Hoexter - BofA Securities, Research Division
Ariel Rosa - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Christian Wetherbee - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Jordan Alliger - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Ravi Shanker - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
J. Bruce Chan - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Richa Talwar - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Jason Seidl - TD Cowen, Research Division
Bascome Majors - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Brandon Oglenski - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good morning. My name is Matthew, and I'll be your facilitator today. I would like to welcome everyone to the UPS Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mr. PJ Guido, Investor Relations Officer. Sir, the floor is yours.

PJ Guido
Investor Relations Officer

Good morning, and welcome to the UPS Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. Joining me today are Carol Tome, our CEO; Brian Dykes, our CFO; and a few additional members of our executive leadership team.

Before we begin, I want to remind you that some of the comments we'll make today are forward-looking statements and address our expectations for the future performance or operating results of our company. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which are described in our 2024 Form 10-K and other reports we file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports, when filed, are available on the UPS Investor Relations website and from the SEC.

Unless stated otherwise, our discussion refers to adjusted results. For the fourth quarter of 2025, GAAP results include total charges of $238 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, comprised of a noncash after-tax charge of $137 million due to a write-off of the company's MD-11 aircraft fleet and after-tax transformation charges of $101 million. A reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted amounts to GAAP financial results is available in today's webcast materials. These materials are also available on the UPS Investor Relations website.

Following our prepared remarks, we will take questions from those joining us via the teleconference. [Operator Instructions]

And now I'll turn the call over to Carol.

Carol Tomé
CEO & Director

Thank you, PJ, and good morning. Before I discuss our results, I'd like to start by remembering those who lost their lives in the tragic crash of UPS Flight 2976. Our thoughts and prayers remain with their families and everyone affected. I am incredibly proud of our team at Worldport and how they responded to this accident. And I would like to thank the Louisville community as well as our business and industry partners for their outpouring of support.

I also want to express my deep appreciation to UPSers around the globe for their exceptional dedication and tireless commitment to serving our customers. For the eighth year in a row, we were the industry leader in on-time service during peak.

Looking at the fourth quarter, our results exceeded our expectations, driven by strong revenue quality, solid cost management and overall great execution. All 3 of our business segments contributed to our outperformance with U.S. Domestic and Supply Chain Solutions delivering year-over-year operating margin expansion and International small package reporting record revenue with the highest fourth quarter revenue in 4 years.

In the fourth quarter, consolidated revenue was $24.5 billion, consolidated operating profit was $2.9 billion and consolidated operating margin was 11.8%. Looking at the full year, consolidated revenue was $88.7 billion, consolidated operating profit totaled $8.7 billion and consolidated operating margin was 9.8%. Brian will provide more detail about our financial results in a moment.

In 2025, we operated through a very dynamic macro environment, including significant change in global trade policies and increasing geopolitical concerns. But at the same time, 2025 was a year of considerable progress for UPS as we took action to strengthen our revenue quality and build a network that's designed to deliver differentiated logistics capabilities.

To that end, here's some of what we accomplished in 2025. By the end of the year, we reached our volume reduction target and reduced Amazon's volume in our network by approximately 1 million pieces per day. As planned, we delivered $3.5 billion in savings from our network reconfiguration and Efficiency Reimagined initiatives. We closed 93 buildings in the U.S. and deployed automation in 57 buildings, while maintaining the high level of service our customers expect.

We were disciplined on revenue quality and product mix, and grew U.S. revenue per piece by 7.1% year-over-year. We increased small- and medium-sized business or SMB penetration to 31.8% of total U.S. volume, driven by DAP, our Digital Access Program, which grew revenue 25% year-over-year and delivered $4.1 billion in global revenue. As a percentage of total U.S. volume, we grew B2B to 42.3%, a 250 basis point improvement versus 2024. And importantly, we expanded our U.S. operating margin in 2025 on an average daily volume, or ADV, decline of 8.6% for the full year.

We leveraged artificial intelligence and our next-gen brokerage capabilities to process nearly 90% of all cross-border transactions digitally, including in the U.S., where we saw more than a 300% increase in daily customs entries compared to last year. We completed our acquisitions of Frigo-Trans and Andlauer Healthcare Group, further expanding our health care cold chain capabilities. In 2025, our global health care portfolio generated $11.2 billion in revenue, putting us well on our way to achieving our goal to become the #1 complex health care logistics provider in the world.

Our UPS Digital business, which includes Roadie and Happy Returns, saw revenue grow by 24% compared to 2024. We deployed Smart Package Smart Facility, our RFID labeling solution, to 5,500 UPS store locations, and completed installing RFID readers in all U.S. package cars. And we maintained a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation by generating $8.5 billion in cash from operations and returning $6.4 billion to shareowners in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

While we made great progress in 2025, we have more work to do. Let's start with our network reconfiguration. One year ago, we announced our Amazon accelerated glide-down plan for the actions we plan to take that would drive future operating margin expansion and greater operational agility. Specifically, we set out to reduce the Amazon volume in our network by 50% over an 18-month period, while at the same time, reconfiguring our network in line with our new volume levels.

We're in the final 6 months of our Amazon accelerated glide-down plan. And for the full year 2026, we intend to glide-down another 1 million pieces per day while continuing to reconfigure our network. Given the success of our glide-down and cost-out efforts in 2025, we are confident that we will be able to complete our network reconfiguration plans without impeding our ability to grow in targeted markets. Brian will provide the details of our Amazon glide-down plans in a moment, which remain anchored on reducing hours, labor and fixed costs in line with new volume levels.

Deliberately shrinking a network is a daunting task, and our success was driven by disciplined planning and effective execution as well as the added flexibility and efficiency that's coming from deploying state-of-the-art technology and automation across a smaller and nimbler network. This year, we plan to further automate our network. And as a result, we expect to increase the percentage of U.S. volume we process through automated facilities to 68% by the end of the year, up from 66.5% at the end of 2025.

Our airline is a key part of our network. And over the past several years, we've taken a systematic programmatic approach to modernizing our global air fleet. To that end, we made the decision to accelerate our plans and retire all MD-11 aircraft in our fleet. Over the next year or so, we will replace much of that capacity with new, more efficient Boeing 767 aircraft.

Now let's move to our economy product we call Ground Saver. At the end of the fourth quarter, we formalized a new relationship with the United States Postal Service to support last mile delivery of this product. Our new agreement improves the economics associated with this product while ensuring our service expectations are met. Ramp-up has already begun. And over the next several weeks and months, we will continue to increase the flow of Ground Saver volume to the USPS. As in the past, we will use density matching technology to determine which economy packages will be delivered by UPS versus the USPS.

And touching on our activities outside the U.S., our new air hub in the Philippines is slated to open towards the end of 2026, and our expansion in Hong Kong is on track to open in 2028. Both gateways give us broader access and faster time in transit in the trade lanes that are growing in Asia.

Now let me move to our 2026 outlook. In 2026, growth in the U.S. small package market, excluding Amazon, is expected to be up low single digits. Outside the U.S., export volume growth is expected to be subdued, partly due to the tough comparisons coming from the boost of tariff front-running in 2025.

Now looking at UPS in 2026. Two important framing comments. First, for the first 6 months of the year, we will be working through the revenue and operating margin impacts of completing the Amazon glide-down, the outsourcing of Ground Saver to the USPS and adjustments to our International business in response to trade policy changes. Second, for the back half of the year, we will be operating a more efficient U.S. network and lapping trade lane disruption.

For the full year 2026, we expect to generate consolidated revenue of approximately $89.7 billion and a consolidated operating margin of approximately 9.6%. Brian will provide more details.

But let me touch a bit more on the shape of the year, focusing specifically on the U.S. In the U.S., we expect revenue to be flattish year-over-year with revenue declining in the first half of the year due to the Amazon glide-down plan and then sequentially increasing in the second half as the Amazon glide-down efforts will have concluded. While we expect overall U.S. domestic revenue to be flat, we are planning to grow SMB and enterprise revenue in the low single digits in the first half of the year and then accelerate that growth to mid-single digits in the second half of the year.

From an operating profit perspective, higher expenses are expected to weigh on operating profit early in the year. These higher expenses are mostly related to when we will recognize benefits from the Ground Saver transition to the USPS and our network reconfiguration. We know that variable costs come out as volume exits the network, but I have learned that reductions in fixed and semi-variable costs lag. We expect to return to operating profit growth in the second half of the year. The way I think about the year is like a bathtub effect. The halves will look different, first half down, second half up. But for the year, the U.S. revenue and operating margin will be flat, and we will exit 2026 with a leaner, more agile U.S. network, one that's built for growth and sustained margin expansion.

As I wrap up, I'm extremely proud of our team and the progress we've made in executing our strategy. June of 2026 will be the inflection point. Our strategy is not a shrink-the-company strategy, but rather one where we grow in the best parts of the market, including enterprise, SMB, B2B, health care and international. Our strategy is about delivering differentiated value to our customers, improving the long-term profitability of our company and delivering value for our shareowners through effective capital allocation.

So with that, thank you for listening. And now I'll turn the call over to Brian.

Brian Dykes
Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President

Thank you, Carol, and good morning, everyone. Before I begin, I would also like to recognize and remember those affected by the crash of UPS Flight 2976. And I'd like to thank our team at Worldport for their steadfast commitment to the community, their teammates and our customers.

Now let's move to our performance. This morning, I'll cover 4 areas. Starting with our fourth quarter results, then I'll review our full year 2025 results, including cash and shareowner returns. Next, I'll discuss the Amazon glide-down and our network reconfiguration and cost-out efforts. Lastly, I'll close with our financial outlook for 2026.

Moving to our results. Starting with our consolidated performance. In the fourth quarter, revenue was $24.5 billion and operating profit was $2.9 billion. Consolidated operating margin was 11.8% and diluted earnings per share were $2.38.

As noted in our earnings press release and financials, in the fourth quarter, we took a $137 million after-tax charge to write off our MD-11 fleet. During the fourth quarter, we proactively grounded our fleet of MD-11 aircraft and leveraged the flexibility of our integrated network to seamlessly operate through peak season. Specifically, we repositioned some aircraft from other parts of the world to the U.S., we increased the amount of volume we moved on the ground and we leased additional aircraft to meet capacity demand. With the learnings from operating during peak season, we made the decision to accelerate the retirement of our MD-11 fleet, which was completed in the fourth quarter.

Over the next 15 months, we expect to take delivery of 18 new Boeing 767 aircraft with 15 expected to deliver this year. As new aircraft join our fleet, we will step down the leased aircraft and associated expense. We believe these actions are consistent with building a more efficient global network positioned for growth, flexibility and profitability.

Now moving to our segment performance. U.S. Domestic demonstrated strong performance in the fourth quarter, driven by the combination of revenue quality and great execution. We delivered a very efficient peak, which is a testament to the transformational effects from the additional automation and network reconfiguration we made throughout the year. And importantly, we continue to take care of our customers during their busiest time of the year and provided industry-leading service during peak for the eighth consecutive year.

For the quarter, total U.S. average daily volume was down 2.4 million pieces, or 10.8%. More than half of the decline is from the glide-down of Amazon volume and our deliberate actions to remove lower-yielding e-commerce volume from our network. Total air average daily volume was down 11.9%, driven by the glide-down of Amazon. Ground average daily volume was down 10.6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2024. Within Ground, Ground Saver ADV declined 27.7%, mainly due to our revenue quality actions.

Moving to customer mix. SMB average daily volume was flat to last year. However, in the fourth quarter, SMBs made up 31.2% of total U.S. volume, an increase of 340 basis points compared to last year. This is the highest fourth quarter SMB penetration in our history. B2B average daily volume finished down 5.2% in the fourth quarter compared to last year, but returns was a bright spot and increased 1.6% year-over-year.

B2B represented 37.5% of our U.S. volume, which was a 220 basis point improvement versus the fourth quarter of 2024 and was the highest fourth quarter B2B penetration we've seen in 6 years. B2C average daily volume was down 13.8% compared to the fourth quarter of 2024. The product and customer mix improvement we saw in the fourth quarter demonstrate the progress we are making as we shift our U.S. mix to more premium volume with a focus on revenue quality.

Moving to revenue. For the fourth quarter, U.S. Domestic generated revenue of $16.8 billion. This was a decrease of 3.2% year-over-year against an ADV decline of 10.8%, with strong revenue per piece growth largely offsetting the lower volume. In the fourth quarter, revenue per piece increased 8.3% year-over-year, which was the strongest fourth quarter revenue per piece growth rate we've seen in 4 years. Breaking down the components of the 8.3% revenue per piece improvement, base rates and package characteristics increased the revenue per piece growth rate by 340 basis points. Customer and product mix improvement increased the revenue per piece growth rate by 320 basis points. The remaining 170 basis point increase was from fuel.

Turning to costs. In the fourth quarter, total expense in U.S. Domestic was down 3.3%. The decline in total expense was primarily driven by our actions to remove hours and operational positions to align with volume. Cost per piece increased 8.9% year-over-year, primarily due to costs associated with the in-sourcing of Ground Saver as well as additional costs to secure air capacity after we grounded our MD-11 fleet. Even in the face of unexpected challenges, the U.S. Domestic segment delivered $1.7 billion in operating profit and operating margin was 10.2%, a 10 basis point improvement compared to last year.

Moving to our International segment. We continued to adjust the network to support our customers through evolving trade policies and delivered strong top-line growth driven by revenue quality efforts in all regions. In the fourth quarter, total International average daily volume declined 4.7%. International domestic ADV decreased 3.5% compared to last year, led by a decline in Europe that was partially offset by growth in Canada.

On the export side, average daily volume in the fourth quarter decreased 5.8% versus last year, led by declines on U.S. destination lanes resulting from the change in the de minimis exemption. U.S. imports in total were down 24.4% year-over-year, led by an ADV decline from Canada and Mexico of 30.5% and the China to U.S. lane was lower by 20.9% compared to last year.

Turning to revenue. In the fourth quarter, International generated revenue of $5 billion, up 2.5% from last year, despite the decline in volume. Operating profit in the International segment was $908 million, down $154 million year-over-year with more than half of the decline related to trade policy changes, which resulted in a shift away from more profitable U.S. import lane. As a result, International operating margin in the fourth quarter was 18%.

Looking at Supply Chain Solutions. In the fourth quarter, revenue was $2.7 billion, lower than last year by $388 million. Looking at the key drivers. Within Air and Ocean Forwarding, demand softness resulted in lower market rates, which drove a decline in revenue year-over-year. Logistics revenue was down year-over-year, driven by a decline in Mail Innovations. This was partially offset by revenue growth in Healthcare Logistics. And UPS Digital, which includes Roadie and Happy Returns, grew revenue 27% compared to the fourth quarter of 2024. In the fourth quarter, Supply Chain Solutions generated operating profit of $276 million. Operating margin was 10.3%, up 100 basis points compared to last year.

Now let's move to our full year 2025 results. For the full year 2025, on a consolidated basis, revenue was $88.7 billion, operating profit was $8.7 billion and operating margin was 9.8%. We generated $8.5 billion in cash from operations and continue to follow our capital allocation priorities. We invested $3.7 billion in CapEx and spent $2 billion on acquisitions. We distributed $5.4 billion in dividends. Lastly, we completed $1 billion in share repurchases.

And in the segments for the full year, in U.S. Domestic, operating profit was $4.6 billion and operating margin was 7.7%. The International segment generated $2.9 billion in operating profit and operating margin was 15.8%. And Supply Chain Solutions delivered operating profit of $1.1 billion and operating margin was 10.6%.

Now let me provide an update on our Amazon glide-down, cost-out and network reconfiguration efforts in 2025. We are pleased with the progress we've made after 4 quarters of a 6-quarter glide-down, and we remain on track to achieve our targeted volume reductions. As Carol mentioned, we delivered $3.5 billion in savings from our network reconfiguration and Efficiency Reimagined initiatives.

The savings came from 3 buckets. Starting with variable costs. In line with the declines in volume, we removed 26.9 million labor hours in 2025. Looking at semi-variable costs, which reflects operational positions, we finished down 48,000 positions, including 15,000 fewer seasonal positions compared to 2024. And moving to our fixed cost bucket, we completed the closure of 195 operations, including closing 93 buildings. And we saw savings from our Efficiency Reimagined initiatives continue to accelerate in the fourth quarter.

As we've discussed, offsetting some of these savings was the incremental costs associated with in-sourcing Ground Saver, which we expect to moderate in 2026, which brings us to 2026 and the last 2 quarters of our 6-quarter glide-down of Amazon volume. In total, for the full year, we intend to glide-down another 1 million pieces per day of Amazon volume. Along with this reduction in volume, we will continue to reconfigure our U.S. network and take out variable, semi-variable and fixed costs.

Looking at the variable costs associated with the Amazon volume decline. In 2026, we plan to reduce total operational hours by approximately 25 million hours. In terms of semi-variable costs, we expect to reduce operational positions by up to 30,000. This will be accomplished through attrition, and we expect to offer a second voluntary separation program for full-time drivers. And in the fixed cost bucket, we have identified 24 buildings for closure in the first half of the year, and we're evaluating additional buildings to be closed later in the year. Plus, we plan to further deploy automation across the network. Pulling it all together, we are targeting $3 billion in savings related to the Amazon glide-down.

Moving to our 2026 financial outlook. For the full year 2026, on a consolidated basis, we expect revenue to be approximately $89.7 billion. Operating margin is expected to be approximately 9.6%. And diluted earnings per share expected to be about flat to 2025. As a reminder, 2025 EPS included a $0.30 benefit from sale-leaseback transactions. And lastly, our guidance for 2026 does not reflect any significant changes to the current tariff landscape.

Now let me add color on the segments. Looking at U.S. Domestic, we are going through significant structural changes and 2026 marks the inflection point of our strategy. Full year 2026 revenue is expected to be approximately flat year-over-year. We expect ADV to be down mid-single digits year-over-year due to our actions with Amazon, which will be offset by a strong revenue per piece growth rate in the mid-single digits. Full year operating margin is expected to be flat to 2025.

Looking at the shape of the year, revenue and our cost structure in the back half of the year will be meaningfully different than in the beginning of the year. In the first half of the year, we expect a decline in revenue compared to the first half of 2025, driven by volume decline. And looking at the first quarter of 2026, we expect to generate an operating margin in the mid-single digits. This is due to short-term transition expenses related to Ground Saver, the timing of removing Amazon-related costs, including the execution of a voluntary driver separation program and additional expense associated with the aircraft leases related to the retirement of our MD-11 fleet.

In the second half of the year, we expect high single-digit operating profit growth, reflecting the completion of our strategic actions. We will still be comping year-over-year declines from Amazon, but we expect enterprise and SMB revenue growth. First half cost pressures are expected to be behind us, and we'll be running a more agile U.S. network. The USPS will be delivering some of our Ground Saver product, and our driver staffing will align with our new delivery volume level. Our results in the second half of the year will be more indicative of our go-forward financial algorithm with an emphasis on both top-line growth and operating margin expansion.

Moving to the International segment. We expect the dynamic environment we experienced in 2025 will continue in 2026, primarily due to the tariff and de minimis policy changes that will continue to drive changes in trade lane mix. With that in mind, we anticipate revenue growth to be in the low single digits year-over-year, driven by a solid increase in revenue per piece. Operating margin in the International segment is expected to be in the mid-teens. Looking at the first quarter, we expect revenue to be approximately flat with the year-over-year decline in operating profit due to changes in trade lanes and tough comps from the front-running of tariffs and de minimis changes in 2025.

And in Supply Chain Solutions, for the full year 2026, we expect revenue to be up high single digits, which includes revenue from our Andlauer acquisition. Operating margin in SCS is expected to be in the low double digits. For modeling purposes, in total below the line, we expect approximately $760 million in expense, which includes pension income of approximately $250 million. And we expect the tax rate for the full year to be approximately 23%.

Now let's turn to our expectation for cash and the balance sheet. We expect free cash flow to be approximately $6.5 billion, including our annual pension contribution of $1.3 billion, but before we factor in the financial impact of a voluntary driver separation program. Capital expenditures are expected to be about $3 billion. We are planning to pay out around $5.4 billion in dividends in 2026, subject to Board approval.

To close, I'd like to echo Carol's comments and express how proud I am of our teams for executing the strategy while continuing to take care of our customers. Our efforts today are setting our business up for future margin expansion and greater operational agility, and we're focused on growing in the best parts of the market to deliver long-term value for our shareowners.

With that, operator, please open the lines for questions.

