U.S. Bancorp (USB) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 20, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Company Participants

George Andersen - Senior VP & Director of Investor Relations
Gunjan Kedia - President, CEO & Director
John Stern - Vice Chair & Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

Robert Siefers - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
John Pancari - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
John McDonald - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Ebrahim Poonawala - BofA Securities, Research Division
Michael Mayo - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
L. Erika Penala - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Kenneth Usdin - Bernstein Autonomous LLP
Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Betsy Graseck - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Saul Martinez - HSBC Global Investment Research
Steven Chubak - Wolfe Research, LLC
Matthew O'Connor - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Christopher McGratty - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Welcome to the U.S. Bancorp Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately 11:00 a.m. Central Time.

I will now turn the conference over to George Andersen, Director of Investor Relations for U.S. Bancorp.

George Andersen
Senior VP & Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Julianne, and good morning, everyone. In our boardroom today, I'm joined by our Chief Executive Officer, Gunjan Kedia, and Vice Chair and CFO, John Stern. In a moment, Gunjan and John will be referencing a slide presentation together with their prepared remarks.

A copy of the presentation, our press release and supplemental analyst schedules can be found on our website at ir.usbank.com. Please note that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risks and uncertainty. Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's earnings presentation, our press release and in reports on file with the SEC. Following our prepared remarks, Gunjan and John will be happy to take any questions that you have.

I will now turn the call over to Gunjan.

Gunjan Kedia
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, George, and good morning, everyone. I will begin on Slide 3. This quarter, we delivered strong earnings per share of $1.26, an increase of approximately 18% year-over-year on an adjusted basis. Net interest income this quarter increased 3.3% year-over-year, supported by strong consumer deposit growth. Fee revenue grew 7.6% year-over-year with broad-based strength across most of our fee businesses. For both the fourth quarter and the full year, we posted record net revenues of $7.4 billion and $28.7 billion, respectively.

More specifically, in the fourth quarter, total net revenue grew 5.1%, and we delivered meaningful positive operating leverage of 440 basis points as adjusted. John will provide more details on our financial performance in his opening remarks.

Moving to Slide 4. Our clear focus this year has been on restoring investor confidence in our ability to deliver strong and more consistent financial results for the second consecutive quarter, more focused execution on our 3 key priorities resulted in us operating within all of our medium-term target ranges.

On Slide 5, we highlight steady progress against our expense management priority. Four signature productivity programs have helped us deliver 9 straight quarters of largely stable expenses. This has meaningfully contributed to our ability to deliver positive operating leverage of 370 basis points for the full year of 2025. Our expense initiatives continue to generate sustainable productivity in our operations and will remain foundational disciplines going forward. In 2026, we will make strategic investments necessary to drive our growth, particularly in technology, sales and marketing. As such, we expect revenue growth to be a stronger driver of continued positive operating leverage for the year.

Slide 6 highlights our strong fee growth and improving mix. For the full year fee income represented 42% of total net revenues for the company and grew 6.7% year-over-year. A highly diversified mix of fee revenue businesses is a core differentiator for our franchise. Our organic growth strategy has focused on the principle of interconnected product solutions that have created unique value propositions and deeper relationships with our 15 million clients. In '26, we will remain highly focused on executing the initiatives that we launched in 2025. In addition, we are excited to close on our acquisition of BTIG and capture the considerable revenue synergies offered by that combination.

On Slide 7, we recap the strategic rationale for this bolt-on acquisition. We've had a 10-year partnership with BTIG and have completed 350 deals or more together in that time frame. Last week, after we announced, I heard from many of our clients who applauded this next step in our partnership, which gives us confidence around the cultural fit between our 2 organizations and our ability to build an extraordinary capital markets franchise that can support an even broader array of client needs. We look forward to updating you on our progress there at the future analyst conference.

Let me turn to Slide 8. We briefly spotlight our Global Fund Services business. We generated strong fee revenue growth for the company this year. GFS is a highly capital-efficient business that serves our institutional clients in particular, private capital and asset managers across the U.S. and Europe. The products offered by GFS attract high-quality operational deposits, money market assets under management and capital markets business such as foreign exchange. BTIG capabilities will further support growth in this business. As you can see from the chart on the left, GFS total net revenue has grown at a healthy 11% CAGR since 2021 and grew at 12% in 2025.

We have some unique product capabilities for start-up and first-time ETFs and have onboarded nearly half of all new U.S. ETF launches in 2025. The underlying drivers of performance within this business are continuing to gain momentum as ETF stay in favor with investors for their cost efficiency and recent favorable regulatory changes, and we continue to innovate in areas like digital assets and derivative-based ETF products.

Moving to Slide 9. Our payments transformation is a strategic and long-term priority for the company. Today, a payments product is often times the first and the most frequent engagement with clients, especially with Gen Z, embedded interconnected payments capabilities are fundamental to retaining, deepening and growing our future client franchise. The chart on the left shows the steady strengthening of growth rates for our payments businesses as we execute our transformation. With our payments leadership team now fully in place, we have hit our stride on execution. In '26, we expect to sustain momentum on our transformation and add additional focus on the small business segment for both card and merchant.

Turning to Slide 10. Net interest income and margin are both improving. We delivered record consumer deposits this quarter. The effectiveness of products like Bank Smartly, more sophisticated pricing capabilities, and a significant overhaul of skills, training, digital tools and incentives, together with investments in our branches drove our performance. Additionally, commercial real estate loans also showed modest growth after 11 quarters of decline. Today, our balance sheet is poised for continued NII growth. On the loan side, we will drive commercial and credit card loans to deepen client relationships. On the deposit side, we'll drive consumer and operational deposits to improve our funding mix.

Turning to Slide 11. Operating within our medium-term target ranges has resulted in industry-leading EPS growth as adjusted in 2025 even with more modest buybacks as compared with the industry.

Let me now turn the call over to John, who will take you through more details of the quarter.

John Stern
Vice Chair & Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Gunjan, and good morning, everyone. This was another strong quarter for us driven by continued new business momentum and an improving macroeconomic environment. If I could turn your attention to Slide 12, I'll start with some highlights for the quarter, followed by a discussion of fourth quarter earnings trends. As Gunjan mentioned, we reported earnings per common share of $1.26 and achieved record net revenue of $7.4 billion this quarter. Revenue growth benefited from improved spread income and all fee categories performed well. Key credit quality metrics improved both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis. As of December 31, our tangible book value per common share increased 18.2% on a year-over-year basis.

Slide 13 provides our key performance metrics. This quarter, we delivered a return on tangible common equity of 18.4%, a return on average assets of 1.19% and an efficiency ratio of 57.4% all improvements on a year-over-year basis.

Slide 14 provides a balance sheet summary. Total average deposits increased 0.7% linked quarter to $515 billion as we continue to emphasize growth in our consumer and relationship-based deposits. Noninterest-bearing deposits increased both sequentially and year-over-year as we gained traction across several institutional fee businesses like Treasury Management and Global Corporate Trust.

Our percentage of noninterest-bearing to total average deposits remained stable at approximately 16%. Average loans totaled $384 billion, up 1.4% from the prior quarter on an accelerating year-over-year growth in our focus areas of commercial and credit card loans, which grew 10.1% and 5.7%, respectively. On an ending basis, these loans now represent approximately 48% of total loans for the bank compared to approximately 45% last year. The ending balance on our investment portfolio was as of December 31 remained at $171 billion.

Turning to Slide 15. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis totaled $4.3 billion, an increase of 1.4% on a linked-quarter basis, primarily driven by favorable deposit mix shift. Net interest margin increased 2 basis points sequentially to 2.77% as we look to achieve greater margin expansion in the medium term.

Slide 16 highlights fee revenue trends within noninterest income. Total fee income was approximately $3.05 billion, an increase of 7.6% on a year-over-year basis, with broad-based growth across our payments, institutional and consumer fee businesses. For the full year, fee income increased 6.7% compared to the prior year. In 2025, we benefited from high single-digit growth in our institutional fee businesses, continued strength within impact finance and stronger payments revenue.

Turning to Slide 17. Noninterest expense totaled approximately $4.2 billion, up 0.7% linked quarter as FDIC expense favorability was partially offset by severance charges.

Slide 18 highlights improved asset quality trends. This quarter, our ratio of nonperforming assets to loans and other real estate was 0.41% at December 31, an improvement of 2 basis points linked quarter and 7 basis points year-over-year. The net charge-off ratio improved to 0.54%, a 2 basis point decrease sequentially, while our allowance for credit losses of $7.9 billion represented 2.03% of period-end loans.

Turning to Slide 19. As of December 31, our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.8% or 9.3%, including AOCI.

On Slide 20, we provide a comparison of our fourth quarter and full year results to our previous guidance. For the fourth quarter, net interest income, fee revenue and noninterest expense all exceeded our previous guidance. Taken together, this resulted in another quarter of meaningful positive operating leverage for the company. For the full year, revenue growth of 4% hit the midpoint of our full year guidance expectations, while positive operating leverage meaningfully outperformed our full year 2025 outlook.

Moving to Slide 21. I'll now provide full year and first quarter 2026 forward-looking guidance. Starting with the full year of 2026, we expect total net revenue growth to be in the range of 4% to 6% compared to the prior year. We expect to deliver positive operating leverage of 200 basis points or more for the full year. Our guidance excludes the impact of the BTIG acquisition, which is expected to contribute $175 million to $200 million of fee revenue per quarter. We have provided some additional details on Page 30 of the appendix.

Let me now provide first quarter 2026 guidance. Net interest income growth on a fully taxable equivalent basis is expected to be in the range of 3% to 4%, compared to the first quarter of 2025. Total fee revenue growth is expected to be in the range of 5% to 6% compared to the first quarter of 2025, and we expect total noninterest expense growth of approximately 1% compared to the first quarter of 2025.

Turning to Slide 22. We continue to operate within our medium-term target ranges. Our consistent execution against these ranges will remain a key focus entering 2026, and we have a high degree of confidence in our ability to strengthen our performance and build on these results over time.

Let me now hand it back to Gunjan for closing remarks.

Gunjan Kedia
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, John. We are wrapping up 2025 with a significant leadership transition behind us and strong momentum going into 2026. The banking industry will likely see meaningful shifts in capital, supervision, digital assets, AI and novel banks in the coming years. Our scale, business mix and culture position us for success. We remain focused on executing our priorities to drive organic growth, high returns, productivity, and strong risk management.

Finally, I would like to offer a special thanks to many of you for your well wishes for Minneapolis, where we are headquartered. With all the challenges this community is facing, we remain focused on our clients and our teams.

With that, we will now open the call for your questions.

