V.F. Corporation (VFC) Q3 2026 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Allegra Perry - Vice President of Investor Relations
Bracken Darrell - President, CEO & Director
Paul Vogel - EVP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Adrienne Yih-Tennant - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Tom Nikic - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Brooke Roach - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Michael Binetti - Evercore Inc.
Simeon Siegel - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Tracy Kogan - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Jonathan Komp - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Jay Sole - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us, and welcome to V.F. Corporation's Q3 Fiscal 2026 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I will now hand the conference over to Allegra Perry, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Allegra Perry
Vice President of Investor Relations

Hello, everyone. Welcome to V.F. Corporation's Third Quarter Fiscal 2026 Conference Call. On today's call, we will make forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These uncertainties are detailed in documents filed regularly with the SEC. Unless we say otherwise, amounts that Bracken and Paul refer to on today's call are all on an adjusted constant dollar continuing operations and excluding Dickies basis, which we've defined in the presentation that was posted this morning on our Investor Relations website. We use those as lead numbers in our discussion as we believe they more accurately represent the true operational performance and underlying results of our business.

We may also refer to reported amounts, which are in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Reconciliations of GAAP measures to adjusted amounts are found in the supplemental financial tables, which are included in the presentation where we identify and qualify all excluded items and provide management's view of why this information is useful to investors.

Joining me on today's call are V.F.'s President and Chief Executive Officer, Bracken Darrell; and EVP and Chief Financial Officer, Paul Vogel. Following our prepared remarks, we'll open the call for your questions. I'll now hand over to Bracken.

Bracken Darrell
President, CEO & Director

Thank you so much, Allegra. Before I get into anything else, I can't help but talk about Alex Honnold. Over the weekend, Alex set a record for the biggest urban free solo climb in history, climbing the 1,667-foot skyscraper Taipei 101. Alex has been an athlete of The North Face for over 20 years. And he's one of the many super impressive and brave human beings we work with as we develop products and marketing. You might remember just last quarter, we highlighted that Jim Morrison completed the first ski descent of The North Face of Mount Everest. That was captured by another athlete of ours, Jimmy Chin, and will be released as a feature film later this year. And Jim's back story is simply incredible. Our athletes continue to push the boundaries wearing The North Face product, and we continue to push the boundaries of our results.

So let me get into the third quarter. We had a strong third quarter. I'm incredibly proud of the team, and I'd like to thank all of our employees for their relentless hard work and dedication. Importantly, our business improved in Q3 relative to last quarter, returning to growth during our peak holiday quarter. In Q3, total revenue was up 2%, exceeding our own expectations. Over 75% of our business was up by revenue. And excluding Vans and Dickies, revenue was up 5% versus last year. On a global basis, the DTC returned to growth, up 3%, driven by the U.S., particularly in Digital. We also had one of our strongest performances in the Americas in over 3 years, up 6%, driven by growth in both DTC and wholesale.

As you'll remember, fixing the U.S. has been a top priority of our turnaround. Our revenue performance also helped drive stronger-than-anticipated operating income of $341 million. Reported net debt, excluding lease liabilities, was down almost $600 million versus last year or down almost 20%. To summarize, we had a very strong Q3, growing revenue, expanding margins and reducing debt, exactly as we said we'd do.

Let's talk through some of our highlights from our brands, where we continue to see continued progress across the board. Starting with The North Face, which delivered strong growth during the peak season with revenue up 5%. Both DTC and wholesale were up globally, and I'm particularly proud of the fact that we grew 15% in the Americas. The North Face is generating broad-based growth across categories. In the quarter, all product categories were up versus last year with strength in performance apparel and footwear, which was up double digits again this quarter. Last quarter, we talked about the expanded product offering of Summit Series. That is also performing strongly with double-digit growth in all regions. We're making inroads as well into elevated products and elevated fabrication. And let me give you an example.

Our leather collection, I have the jacket right in front of me, with a leather jacket priced at $1,100 sold out in less than 24 hours. The brand was again recognized for design and innovation through multiple awards, including the top outdoor brand in America in Times the World's Best Brands of 2025 list. You might remember, we also won Fast Company's 2025 Innovation by Design Award, Times Best Innovations of 2025 and the Popular Science 50 greatest inventions or innovations of 2025.

In addition to elevating our product offering, we also continue to advance on another key strategic priority to enhance our distribution. During the quarter, we opened our largest global flagship store in New York on Fifth Avenue, which represents how we're reimagining physical retail for the brand. The stores delivered strong results in its initial weeks of trading. We continue to refine and advance our marketing tactics. Our social-first marketing approach is driving brand heat while broadening reach and Q3 marked our strongest social-first performance to date, and that was before Alex's climb. During the quarter, we launched the second installment of our collaboration with SKIMS, which also delivered strong results. As you can see, lots of great developments at The North Face.

Moving on to Timberland. This is another brand with great momentum. Brand revenue was up 5% in Q3 with global growth across both wholesale and DTC. Americas had another strong quarter, up 9%. From a product perspective, the 6-inch premium boot was a key driver behind the brand's strong momentum. And we're innovating this core -- innovating against this core icon while also continuing to develop products across other categories. The boat shoe continues to grow strongly, up double digits in all regions. And we're developing the brand's product lineup, including new transitional styles for the warmer seasons. Timberland has incredible energy, and we're amplifying that brand's cultural relevancy and reach through social-first marketing as well.

Building on last quarter's trends, search interest continues to grow in the U.S. and key EMEA markets. The brand consistently shows up in key cultural moments and is embraced by celebrities everywhere from courtside to the red carpet. As you can probably tell, I couldn't be more excited about Timberland's growth opportunity over the long term. More to come.

Moving on to Altra. It's clearly a smaller brand today than our top 3, but I have to tell you, I love the brand's energy and distinctive products. The potential here is large and probably underappreciated. The brand delivered another quarter of extremely strong growth, up 23% versus last year. Key franchise in both trail and road running continue to drive growth, and we're fueling this growth with more and more innovation. New products are delivering, including Via and Temp 6. We're investing strongly in marketing given the very high ROI. We're well on track to exceed $250 million in revenue for Altra in fiscal '26, but the addressable market is large and growing.

Now let's turn to Vans. We continue to make progress here, and we're seeing green shoots. In line with our expectation, revenue was down 10%, similar to last quarter. You already know that we're focused on executing the key commercial moments as we continue to refresh and upgrade the product lineup. This strategy is starting to deliver. In fact, global digital revenue grew in the quarter -- grew in the quarter, led by the Americas. In terms of product newness -- in terms of product, new products delivered growth again this quarter with consistently strong trends delivered by the Super Lowpro, the Skate Loafer, which I'm wearing right now, and the Crosspath XC, where we continue to innovate with design colors and materials. Elevation, innovation and newness are also increasingly visible and having an impact across our icons. The Authentic and the Slip-On are delivering improving trends, benefiting from a rising interest among the high fashion brands in skate-inspired shoes. The KPop Demon Hunters collaboration launched in early December, just a few months after the movie hit the screens. In this one, we showed how fast we can bring a product to market. We went from idea to store shelf in 10 weeks. We're working on product creations free across our portfolio now for 2027.

Turning to marketing. Our shift in strategy is visible. Our holiday campaign, Meet the Vans, featured lifestyle product and drove online energy during the gift-giving holiday period. Our digital traffic trends improved in the Americas and in EMEA, which led to growth in our global e-commerce sales for the first time in over 4 years, led by the Americas. We are excited about the influence we see as well. We'll see later this year from SZA in her role as Artistic Director. Just last week, SZA was in Paris at Paris Fashion Week, seated in the front row at Louis Vuitton and Dior fashion shows, wearing bespoke Vans, Old Skool and Authentic jeweled with gemstones by New York-based jewelry designer, Rachel Goatley. We'll see more of SZA and her artistic vision for the brand in the coming months.

In summary, Vans continues to make progress. I'd like to share a planned transition now within our global leadership team. Our Chief Commercial Officer, Martino Scabbia Guerrini, is stepping down from his role. Martino will continue to support the company's adviser to me to ensure a smooth transition. Brent Hyder will assume the role of Chief Commercial Officer, in addition to the continuing role -- his continuing role as President for the Americas, a role he's held since last spring with strong results. I want to sincerely thank Martino for his 20 years of outstanding contributions to the company. Martino's energy, passion and deep focus on design and consumer-led brands have left an enduring impact on our business and on me. I'm confident this leadership team comprised of best-in-class talent will enable us to fulfill V.F.'s significant growth opportunities ahead.

To conclude, we have momentum. And now we've gone positive for the first time in a while. We're on track to deliver our targets. I'll now hand it over to Paul, who will dive in deeper into the numbers. Paul?

Paul Vogel
EVP & CFO

Great. Thank you, Bracken. Before I go into the details of Q3 actuals and Q4 guidance, let me give you the punchline for how fiscal '26 is shaping up. Annual revenue will be flat to up this year versus last year. Gross margin will be at 54.5% or better within striking distance of our fiscal year '28 target of 55%. Operating margin will be 6.5% or better. Operating and free cash flow will be up versus last year. Leverage will be 3.5x or lower, down from 4.1x at the end of fiscal 2025.

So now turning to Q3. We delivered strong results with revenue up 2% and nicely ahead of our guidance. Our operating profit was also better than planned. As Bracken said, we had a good holiday selling period across our key brands. Q3 revenue was $2.8 billion, up 2% year-on-year on a constant dollar basis, above our guidance of down 1% to down 3%. The better-than-expected performance was primarily due to stronger results from the Americas across both DTC, especially e-com and wholesale. By brand, The North Face grew 5%, led by growth in both DTC and wholesale, with particularly strong results in the Americas region, up 15%. As anticipated, APAC was down 3% and EMEA was down 2%. Vans revenue in the quarter was down 10%, broadly in line with last quarter and in line with expectations. And finally, Timberland had another good quarter with continued momentum with revenue up 5%, reflecting growth across all channels and in the Americas and EMEA, while APAC was down. By region, the Americas region had a strong performance, up 6%, while international regions performed as expected with EMEA region down 3% and APAC down 4%.

And lastly, by channel, DTC was up 3%, our first positive quarter in a couple of years, driven by strong e-com performance, while wholesale was down 1%, although growing in the Americas region. Our adjusted gross margin was up 10 basis points versus last year as mix and sourcing savings resulted in lower product costs and offset the impact from tariffs. As expected, we had the first meaningful impact of tariff flow through the gross margin in the third quarter. The unmitigated impact was approximately $40 million. And as a reminder, pricing actions were only implemented in Q4 and did not have an effect in Q3. Our SG&A rate leveraged 20 basis points as we continue to realize cost savings across the business. SG&A expense in constant dollars was up 1% due to increased marketing efforts and higher variable costs associated with higher revenue within the quarter. Our adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 12.1%, up 30 basis points year-over-year. Net interest expense of $35 million was a little better than expected and below last year. Tax was $81 million or a rate of approximately 26%, also better than our guidance due to slightly different geographical mix in the quarter. And finally, adjusted earnings per share was $0.58 versus $0.61 in Q3 of last year.

Now moving on to our balance sheet. Inventories were down 4% in constant dollar year-on-year. On a reported basis, free cash flow through Q3 was $513 million, in line with our expectations for the year and broadly flat to last year. Year-to-date, cash flow includes the payment of approximately $100 million of incremental tariffs. Overall, we are right where we expected to be. Reported net debt, including lease liabilities, was down approximately $500 million versus last year or down 11%. In addition, earlier this month and post the end of the quarter, we announced that in February, we will be prepaying the March 2026 [ $500 ] million notes.

Turning to the outlook for the fourth quarter. We expect Q4 revenue to be flat to up 2% on a constant dollar basis. We expect a positive FX benefit of about 5% on the top line. The North Face is expected to be broadly in line with Q3 growth. We will see slower growth at Timberland as we discussed last quarter, and we expect Vans to decline roughly mid-single digits.

Moving down the P&L, we expect Q4 adjusted operating income to be in the range of $10 million to $30 million. Our gross margin will be flat to slightly up versus last year as the impacts from tariffs are expected to be offset by initial pricing actions and ongoing sourcing savings. SG&A rate is expected to be flat to slightly down versus last year due to cost-saving initiatives. And finally, we expect Q4 interest of approximately $30 million. Our Q4 tax rate is based on an estimated full year effective rate of 33% to 34%. And this is in line with my recent comments about the increasing trend in our tax rate over the next 1 to 2 years and quarterly fluctuations as a result of the changes in global tax rates and in our geographic mix.

Let me now give a bit more detail on our progress in fiscal '26. As I said, we expect revenue to be flat to up for the full year. This will mark the first year since fiscal '23, excluding Dickies and Supreme, in which revenue was stable or grew versus the prior year. We continue to expect operating income to be up versus last year. Within that, we expect gross margin to be 54.5% or better, reflecting progress made on various work streams unveiled at the Investor Day last year. In addition, we anticipate operating margin to be at least 6.5% for the year, up versus last year's comparable margin of 5.9%, reflecting further progress made on streamlining costs while also prioritizing investments in key strategic areas. On cash flow, we continue to expect both reported operating cash flow and free cash flow to be up year-on-year. This includes over $100 million negative impact of tariffs and the negative impact from the sale of Dickies, which we estimate to be about $35 million.

And finally, we expect to end the year with leverage at or below 3.5x as we continue to make progress on our top financial priority to reduce debt and leverage. This is a nice improvement from where we entered the year at 4.1x and continues to put us on a path to hit the goal of 2.5x by year-end fiscal '28 as we outlined at our Investor Day.

I'll now hand it back to the operator to take your questions.

