Viavi Solutions Inc. (VIAV) Q2 2026 Earnings Call January 28, 2026 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Vibhuti Nayar - Director of Investor Relations
Ilan Daskal - Executive VP & CFO
Oleg Khaykin - President, CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Ruben Roy - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Ryan Koontz - Needham & Company, LLC, Research Division
Andrew Spinola - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Timothy Savageaux - Northland Capital Markets, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. My name is Abby, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Viavi Solutions Fiscal Second Quarter 2026 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

[Operator Instructions]

Thank you. And at this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Vibhuti Nayar, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Vibhuti Nayar
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Abby. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Viavi Solutions Fiscal Second Quarter 2026 Earnings Call. My name is Vibhuti Nayar, Head of Investor Relations for Viavi Solutions. With me on today's call is Oleg Khaykin, our President and CEO; and Ilan Daskal, our CFO.

Please note, this call will include forward-looking statements about the company's financial performance. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations and estimations. We encourage you to review our most recent annual report and SEC filings, particularly the risk factors described in those filings. The forward-looking statements, including the guidance that we provide during this call and our expectations regarding the acquired business are valid only as of today. Viavi undertakes no obligation to update these statements.

Please also note that unless we state otherwise, all results discussed on this call, except revenue, are non-GAAP. We reconcile these non-GAAP results to our preliminary GAAP financials and discuss their usefulness and limitations in today's earnings release. The release as well as our supplemental earnings slides, which includes historical financial tables, are available on Viavi's website at www.investor.viavisolutions.com.

Finally, we are recording today's call and will make the recording available on our website by 4:30 p.m. Pacific Time this evening. Now I would like to turn the call over to Ilan. Ilan?

Ilan Daskal
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Vibhuti. Good afternoon, everyone. Now I would like to review the results of the second quarter of fiscal year 2026. Net revenue for the quarter was $369.3 million, which is at the high end of our guidance range of $360 million and $370 million. Revenue was up 23.5% sequentially and on a year-over-year basis was up 36.4%. Operating margin for the second fiscal quarter was 19.3%, above the high end of our guidance range of 17.3% to 18.5% Operating margin increased 360 basis points from the prior quarter and on a year-over-year basis was up 440 basis points. EPS at $0.22 was also above the high end of our guidance range of $0.18 to $0.20 and was up $0.07 sequentially. On a year-over-year basis, EPS was up $0.09.

Moving on to our Q2 results by business segment. NSE revenue for the second fiscal quarter came in at $291.5 million, which is at the high end of our guidance range of $283 million to $293 Revenue from Spirent was $43 million, which was slightly below our expectation of $45 million to $55 million due to timing of certain opportunities. On a year-over-year basis, NSE revenue was up 45.8% as a result of the acquisitions of Inertial Labs and Spirent product lines. We also saw strong demand for lab and production and field products driven by the data center ecosystem. NSE gross margin for the quarter was 64.7%, which is 10 basis points lower on a year-over-year basis. NSE's operating margin for the quarter was 15.6% compared to 8.7% during the same quarter last year. NSE operating margin was above the high end of our guidance range of 12.9% to 14.3%, primarily driven by higher fall-through.

OSP revenue for the second fiscal quarter came in at $77.8 million, slightly above our guidance range -- sorry, guidance of about $77 million and was up 9.7% on a year-over-year basis. The increase in revenue for the quarter was primarily a result of strength in anti-counterfeiting and other products. OSP gross margin was 50.8%, up 20 basis points from the same period last year. OSP's operating margin was 33.4%, an increase of 100 basis points on a year-over-year basis. OSP operating margin came in slightly below our guidance range of 33.5% to 34.5% due to slightly higher variable costs.

Moving on to the balance sheet and cash flow. Total cash and short-term investments at the end of Q2 were $772.1 million compared to $549.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2026. Cash flow from operating activities for the quarter was $42.5 million versus $44.7 million in the same period last year, mainly due to timing of working capital. CapEx for the quarter was $5.6 million versus $8.2 million in the same period last year. During the quarter, we successfully exchanged principal amount of about $100 million, 1.625% convertible notes due in March of 2026 or 7.9 million shares of Viavi's common shares at a price per share of $17.88. We have remaining principal amount of about $50 million on these notes, which will be paid in cash. The associated premium on these convertible notes will be settled in shares.

Additionally, we prepaid in January of 2026 $100 million of the $600 million Term Loan B. This is in line with our continued financial discipline. During the quarter, we did not purchase any shares of our stock as we prioritized our capital allocation towards debt management. The fully diluted share count for the quarter was 233.4 million shares, up from 224.8 million shares in the prior year and versus 228.7 million shares in our guidance for the second fiscal quarter. Last week, we approved a restructuring and workforce reduction plan to improve operational efficiencies and better align workforce and resources with our current business needs and strategic priorities.

We expect approximately 5% of our global workforce to be impacted and estimate to incur approximately $32 million of restructuring charges in connection with this plan. Upon completion of this initiative, we expect annual savings of about $30 million, which will mainly benefit our operating expenses. We intend to reinvest a portion of these savings with higher growth areas of our business. We expect to recognize majority of these charges by the end of June of 2026 with a plan to be substantially completed by the end of December of 2026. The savings of about $30 million include previously communicated $16 million of synergies from the acquisition of Spirent's product lines.

Moving on to our guidance for the third quarter of fiscal 2026. We expect the third fiscal quarter revenue for Viavi to be up sequentially as a result of continued strength in many of our end markets. For NSE, we expect quarter-over-quarter revenue to be higher as a result of continued strong demand for lab and production and field products, which is driven by the data center ecosystem as well as aerospace and defense customers. Our guidance for the third quarter also includes full 13 weeks of Spirent product lines versus 10 weeks in the prior quarter. For OSP, we expect quarter-over-quarter revenue to be higher, in line with seasonality of higher demand for anti-counterfeiting and other products. For the third fiscal quarter of 2026, we expect Viavi revenue in the range of $386 million and $400 million.

We expect total NSE revenue between $304 million and $316 million. OSP revenue is expected to be in the range of $82 million and $84 million. Operating margin for Viavi is expected to be 19.7%, plus or minus 50 basis points. NSE operating margin is expected to be 15.5%, plus or minus 50 basis points. OSP operating margin is expected to be 35.3%, plus or minus 50 basis points. EPS is expected to be between $0.22 and $0.24. Our tax expense for the third quarter is expected to be around $9 million, plus or minus $500,000 as a result of jurisdictional mix. Our acquisition of Spirent product lines as well as Inertial Labs has resulted in greater profits in the U.S., which allows us to benefit from our NOLs. As a result, we now expect our tax rate to be in the mid-teens on a go-forward basis.

We expect other income and expense to reflect a net expense of approximately $12.5 million, and the share count is expected to be around 245 million shares. During the third quarter, we expect to pay earn-out liability for Inertial Labs of about $75 million as a result of their strong performance in calendar 2025.

With that, I will turn the call over to Oleg. Oleg?

Oleg Khaykin
President, CEO & Director

Thank you, Ilan. The second quarter of fiscal '26 came in at the high end of our guidance, driven by strong growth in many of our end markets. The results were significantly up both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. NSE revenue in Q2 grew approximately 46% year-over-year, primarily driven by strong demand from the data center ecosystem and aerospace and defense customers. The data center ecosystem, which includes high-performance semis, optical modules and NAMs drove strong demand for lab and production products in support of AI data center build-out. In addition, we are now also seeing emerging strong demand for our fiber field instruments by hyperscalers and service providers to build, operate and optimize the next generation of fiber networks to interconnect data centers. The Q2 quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year growth was also helped by the acquisition of Spirent's HSE product line, which came in slightly below our expectations due to the timing of several opportunities.

Given strong and growing customer demand, we expect the data center ecosystem revenue momentum to continue through the calendar 2026. Our Aerospace and Defense business also saw another strong quarter of growth, driven by continued high demand for our positioning, navigation and timing products. We expect this trend to continue through the rest of the calendar year. The service providers business was generally stable during the quarter. We are seeing some opportunistic demand from the cable operators as they transition to new DAA architecture and DOCSIS 4.0 standard. The demand for wireless infrastructure test continues to be weak but stable. Looking ahead to Q3, we expect NSE revenue to be countercyclically up quarter-on-quarter, driven by continued strong and growing demand from data center and aerospace and defense customers.

Now turning to OSP. OSP saw strong year-on-year growth, driven mostly by recovery in anti-counterfeiting and other products. 3D sensing demand was in line with seasonal expectations. We expect fiscal Q3 to be up quarter-on-quarter in line with the seasonally higher demand for anti-counterfeiting and other products. In summary, calendar 2025 was a pivotal year for Viavi. Our diversification and investment strategy over the past 5 years, focused on data center and aerospace and defense PNT applications has positioned us well to drive strong growth in both of these markets. We have exited calendar 2025 with robust bookings and revenue momentum and anticipate these trends to continue through the calendar year.

In conclusion, I would like to thank the Viavi team for its continued strong innovation and execution and thank our customers and shareholders for their continued support.

With that, I will turn it back over to the operator for Q&A.

