Virtu Financial, Inc. (VIRT) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 8:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Matthew Sandberg
Aaron Simons - CEO & Director
Cindy Lee
Joseph Molluso - Co-President & Co-COO

Conference Call Participants

Eli Abboud
Kenneth Worthington - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Hello, everybody, and welcome to the Virtu Financial Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Call. My name is Elliot, and I'll be coordinating your call today. [Operator Instructions]

I'd now like to hand over to Matt Sandberg at Virtu Financial. Please go ahead.

Matthew Sandberg

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us. Our fourth quarter 2025 results were released this morning and are available on our website. With us today on this morning's call, we have Aaron Simons, our Chief Executive Officer; Cindy Lee; our Chief Financial Officer; and Joe Molluso, our Co-President and Co-Chief Operating Officer. We will begin with brief prepared remarks and then take your questions.

First, if you remind us, today's call may include forward-looking statements, which represent Virtu's current belief regarding future events and are, therefore, subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties, which may be outside the company's control. Please note that our actual results and financial conditions may differ materially from what is indicated in these forward-looking statements. It is important to note that any forward-looking statements made on this call are based on information presently available to the company, and we do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements as new information becomes available.

We refer you to disclaimers in our press release and encourage you to review the description of risk factors contained in our annual report, Form 10-K and other public filings. During today's call, in addition to GAAP measures, we may refer to certain non-GAAP measures, including adjusted net trading income, adjusted net income, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin. These non-GAAP measures should not -- should be considered as supplemental to and not as superior to financial measures as reported in accordance with GAAP.

We direct listeners to consult the Investor portion of our website where you'll find additional supplemental information referred to on this call as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the equivalent GAAP term in the earnings materials with an explanation of why we deem this information to be meaningful as well as how management uses these measures.

With that, I will turn the call over to Aaron.

Aaron Simons
CEO & Director

Thanks, Matt. Good morning, everyone. As a reminder, the prepared remarks for earnings calls moving forward, will focus predominantly on our financial results, allowing us to get to Q&A more quickly. Last call, we spoke about our plans to grow our trading by investing in our infrastructure, acquiring talent and expanding our capital base. We also emphasize that this growth would be a broad effort across the firm not limited to a handful of initiatives. The fourth quarter was a preview of the impact of this renewed focus on growth. Our results for the fourth quarter were impacted positively by a favorable operating environment, and while our capital accumulation efforts are just underway, the incremental capital we added and our ability to dynamically deploy it had a meaningful impact on our results.

I'll hand it over to our Chief Financial Officer, Cindy Lee, who will review the financial results. As always, you can find additional perspective on the quarter in our detailed supplement. After her statement, we will move on to Q&A.

Cindy Lee

Thank you, Aaron, and good morning, everyone. For the fourth quarter of 2025, we generated adjusted net trading income or ANTI of $9.7 million per day or a total of $613 million. This was the highest quarterly total since Q1 2021. For the full year 2025, we generated $8.6 million per day or $2.1 billion in total.

Turning to our segment performance. Market Making reported ANTI of $7.8 million per day for Q4 and $6.7 million per day for the full year 2025. Virtu Execution Services reached $2 million per day for the quarter and $1.9 million per day for the full year. This is the seventh consecutive quarter of increased ANTI for VES and high watermark since early 2022. An indication of substantial progress we have been noting within the VES business. This performance reflects the investment we have made in technology, our focus on client acquisition and the expansion of our product offering. Both of our operating segments benefited from generally favorable market conditions, elevated volumes and strong execution by our team.

Our profitability this quarter was robust. We generated $442 million in adjusted EBITDA, representing a 72% margin. Adjusted EPS was $1.85. For the full year 2025, we recorded $1.4 billion in adjusted EBITDA, 65% margin and $5.73 in adjusted EPS. These numbers all represent high since 2021 and underscores the operating leverage inherent in our business.

On Slide 6 of our supplemental materials, we provided a summary of our operating expenses. Our full year 2025 cash compensation ratio was at 19%, which was within the historical range. The increase in compensation expense reflects our continued focus on retaining and acquiring top talent across the organization, particularly in trading and technology.

Turning to capital. We increased our invested capital by $625 million in 2025, $448 million of which came in the second half of the year while generating an average return of 100% over the year. We will continue to expand our capital base, strengthen our infrastructure and deploy capital where we see the greatest opportunities, all while maintaining our quarterly dividend of $0.24 per share.

This completes our prepared remarks. We will now take your questions.

