Vertiv Holdings Co (VRT) Q3 2025 Earnings Call October 22, 2025 11:00 AM EDT


Company Participants

Lynne Maxeiner - Vice President of Global Treasury & Investor Relations
David Cote - Executive Chairman of the Board
Giordano Albertazzi - CEO & Director
David Fallon - Chief Financial Officer


Conference Call Participants

Amit Daryanani - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Scott Davis - Melius Research LLC
C. Stephen Tusa - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Christopher Snyder - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Jeffrey Sprague - Vertical Research Partners, LLC
Andrew Obin - BofA Securities, Research Division
Andrew Kaplowitz - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Nigel Coe - Wolfe Research, LLC
Nicole DeBlase - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Mark Delaney - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Michael Elias - TD Cowen, Research Division
Amit Mehrotra - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division


Presentation


Operator

Good morning. My name is Brika, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Vertiv's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Please note that this call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host today to begin, Lynne Maxeiner, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.


Lynne Maxeiner
Vice President of Global Treasury & Investor Relations

Great. Thank you, Brika. Good morning, and welcome to Vertiv's Third Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Joining me today are Vertiv's Executive Chairman, Dave Cote; Chief Executive Officer, Giordano Albertazzi; and Chief Financial Officer, David Fallon. We have 1 hour for the call today.

[Operator Instructions] Before we begin, I'd like to point out that during the course of the call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding future events, including the future financial and operating performance of Vertiv. These forward-looking statements are subject to material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We refer you to the cautionary language included in today's earnings release, and you can learn more about these risks in our annual and quarterly reports and other filings made with the SEC.

Any forward-looking statements that we make today are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable as of this date. We undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events. During this call, we will also present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations can be found in our earnings press release and in the investor slide deck found on our website at investors.vertiv.com.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Executive Chairman, Dave Cote.


David Cote
Executive Chairman of the Board

Good morning, all. Well, this was a very strong quarter by any measure. Although I got to say, by looking at the stock price reaction right now, I wonder what would have happened if we hadn't blown the doors off of every single metric. We exceeded guidance across all metrics in a very convincing way. I continue to say I'm more excited now than ever, and you're seeing why.

We're in the early stages of the digital age, and Vertiv's position today reflects the years of focus on customer relationships, disciplined investment, operational excellence and R&D expansion. Selecting a good strategy, sticking with it day by day and reinforcing it with monthly growth days works. Our technology leadership comes from consistently staying ahead of where the industry is going. This digital transformation is just beginning. The scale and speed of what we're seeing in AI and data centers today is just a preview of what's ahead.

Data will continue to increase rapidly and data centers are essential for storage and processing. We are very well positioned to continue to lead through it. I've seen many business transformations over the years. And what's clear is that our strategy is working as our technology focus grows market share. The investments we've made in R&D and capacity are delivering results today. And more importantly, we believe they're building a sustainable competitive advantage that will serve us well for years to come.

I'm more confident than ever that we're in the early stages of what I believe will be a multiyear period of significant growth and value creation, and we couldn't have a better leadership team than Gio and his group to make it happen.

So with that, I'll turn it over to Gio.


Giordano Albertazzi
CEO & Director

Well, thank you. Thank you, Dave, and welcome, everyone. We go to Slide 3. Our Q3 performance demonstrates the strength of our strategy and execution. Our adjusted diluted EPS of $1.24 was up about 63% year-over-year, driven by higher adjusted operating profit.

Q3 organic sales grew 28% with a strong Americas up 43% and APAC up 21%. EMEA declined 4%, relatively in line with our expectations. Particularly encouraging is the 1.4x book-to-bill ratio in Q3. Our trailing 12-month organic orders growth of about 21% demonstrates strong momentum with Q3 orders up 60% year-over-year and 20% sequentially. The market growth ranges from our November '24 Investor Day remain valid, though tracking at the higher end with the Colo Cloud share expanding as the fastest-growing segment, the overall market growth is accelerating. We continue to outgrow the market through superior technology and execution.

Q3 adjusted operating profit reached $596 million, up 43% year-on-year with a 22.3% margin and exceeding guidance. Adjusted free cash flow of $462 million was up 38%, reflecting our strong operating performance. Our 0.5x net leverage demonstrates our strong balance sheet. Given our momentum heading into Q4, we are raising full year guidance for adjusted EPS, net sales, adjusted operating profit and adjusted free cash flow. And with that, we go to Slide 4.

Vertiv's order momentum and pipeline continue to outpace the strong market. While orders can be lumpy, our Q3, about 21% trailing 12-month organic orders growth and a 1.4x book-to-bill ratio showcase our competitive advantages. As mentioned in July, starting next year, we'll move to providing full year orders projections with quarterly updates to better reflect our long-term strategic focus. Our sales grew 29% in the quarter, while building an additional $1 billion in backlog from Q2.

Our total backlog now stands at $9.5 billion, up about 30% year-on-year and 12% sequentially. This clearly gives us a strong visibility into 2026. The phasing of our backlog remains consistent with historical patterns, a healthy backlog in a healthy market. Our application expertise and proven track record have positioned us as a preferred partner for strategic projects. Early involvement in project technology and in project planning further drives our above-market growth. Pricing remains favorable, expected to exceed inflation.

EMEA sales continue to be muted as a market due mainly to power availability and regulatory challenges. Here, we're implementing regional restructuring programs to have the right structure for future strong growth, though acceleration may not come until second half 2026. When we talk about tariffs, we view them as another input cost to our business. The situation remains fluid, and we're addressing it with comprehensive mitigation actions and pricing programs.

We expect to materially offset current tariffs impacts as we exit Q1 2026, while optimizing our supply chain and manufacturing footprint. We are progressing well in addressing the operational and supply chain challenges we experienced in Q2. We are accelerating manufacturing and service capacity investments across all regions and particularly in the Americas, while maintaining disciplined fixed cost management. Our engineering and R&D spending continues to accelerate to further strengthen our industry leadership.

And speaking of leadership, let's go to Slide 5. And let me elaborate on our services capabilities. Services turn market complexity into opportunity. From liquid cooling to higher voltages, services are fundamental to our competitive position. We support the complete customer journey from consultancy through implementation to life cycle and optimization. Our advanced technology platform combines remote monitoring, predictive analytics and energy optimization.

Our advanced diagnostics and predictive capability, including thermal mapping and power quality analysis are helping customers maximize reliability and efficiency with a seamless system integration. what truly sets us apart in combining this technology with our unmatched global scale. The recent Weeleay acquisition accelerate this advantage by analyzing real-time machine data, identifying operational trends and proposing predictive actions from maintenance to energy optimization.

As rack densities increase and systems become more complex, this integration of AI-enabled capabilities with our established field service become even more advantageous. But technology alone is not enough. presence and capacity in field are fundamental. We're scaling our service capacity in parallel with manufacturing, staying ahead of the demand curve. Services, combining advanced technology, global reach and growing capability is truly one of Vertiv's superpowers.

And with that, over to you, David.


David Fallon
Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Gio. Turning to Slide 6. Let me walk you through our strong third quarter financial results, starting with adjusted diluted EPS of $1.24, up approximately 63% from last year's third quarter, with the improvement driven by higher adjusted operating profit and a lower effective tax rate, primarily from progress with tax planning and timing of some discrete items in the quarter.

Organic net sales were up 28% with continued momentum in the Americas, up 43%, while APAC was up 21% as we continue to drive top line expansion across that region. EMEA was down 4%. But as Gio mentioned, we continue to see encouraging signs of accelerated growth in that region, likely looking to the back half of 2026.

Our adjusted operating profit of $596 million was up 43% from last year and $86 million higher than guidance. Adjusted operating margin of 22.3% exceeded prior year by more than 200 basis points, primarily driven by operational leverage on the higher sales, positive price/cost and productivity but partially offset by the negative tariff impact and as we summarized last quarter, operational inefficiencies driven by supply chain actions to mitigate tariffs.

This 22.3% adjusted operating margin was 230 basis points higher than guidance, aided by operational leverage on the higher sales, but also by strong operational execution, including addressing supply chain inefficiencies more quickly than expected just 3 months ago. Still work to do, but we are encouraged as we move into the fourth quarter and 2026. Importantly, our year-over-year incremental margin in the third quarter was approximately 30%, a good indication that we continue the path towards full year adjusted operating margin target of 25% in 2029.

And finally, on this page, we generated $462 million of adjusted free cash flow. That's up 38% from last year, and that translates into approximately 95% free cash flow conversion, and that is consistent with our long-term expectations. Net leverage was 0.5x at quarter end, and we expect to exit the year at 0.2x, providing significant flexibility with future capital deployment.

Moving to Slide 7. This page illustrates our segment results. And as mentioned, Americas delivered strong organic top line growth of 43% driven by accelerated AI demand across product lines and customer segments and margin expanded 400 basis points despite the tariff headwinds as we continue to drive operating leverage, productivity and positive price cost.

Moving to the right. Operating leverage was critical for margin expansion in APAC, which saw 21% organic growth as AI infrastructure continues to drive current and future expected growth across that region.

In EMEA, organic sales were down 4% due to continued industry challenges. However, sales were higher than expectations heading into the quarter, reason for optimism as we expect EMEA to reaccelerate in the back half of 2026, driven by the latent, although inevitable AI infrastructure demand there.

Third quarter adjusted operating margin was significantly below prior year, and we think at a low point, driven by deleverage on lower sales and higher fixed costs as we continue to invest in regional capacity to ensure readiness for the anticipated market recovery. As Gio mentioned, we are implementing a restructuring program, primarily in EMEA, but also impacting other regions. And this global program, which commenced in the third quarter, cost approximately $30 million, and we expect an annualized benefit of approximately $20 million commencing in 2026.

Now let's move to guidance, where we will address the midpoint of our guidance ranges for both 4Q and full year in Slides 8 and 9. Turning to Slide 8, our fourth quarter guidance. We expect adjusted diluted EPS of $1.26, up approximately 27% from prior year and primarily driven by higher adjusted operating profit. We project net sales of $2.85 billion with organic growth of approximately 20%.

Looking at regional growth rates, we expect momentum to continue in the Americas, up high 30s, with APAC up mid-single digits and EMEA down high single digits, but up mid-teens sequentially from the third quarter. Adjusted operating profit is expected to be $639 million, up approximately 27% year-over-year with adjusted operating margin of 22.4%, 10 basis points higher than the third quarter despite higher sales due to headwinds from new tariffs announced since our last earnings release, including those implemented under Section 232, and also a sequential quarterly increase in growth investment as we ready for future strong customer demand.

Next, turning to Slide 9, our full year guidance. We are raising our projection for adjusted diluted EPS to $4.10, 44% higher than 2024. This improvement is primarily driven by higher adjusted operating profit with benefit from lower interest expense and a lower effective tax rate. We are raising our expectations for net sales to $10.2 billion, translating into 27% organic growth for the full year. And we expect adjusted operating profit of $2.06 billion, up 33% from last year and full year adjusted operating margin of 20.2%, approximately 80 basis points higher than 2024, demonstrating strong expansion despite the negative impact from tariffs.

We are raising our adjusted free cash flow guidance to $1.5 billion with free cash flow conversion at approximately 95%. And before turning it back to Gio, I do note that this guidance assumes tariff rates active on October 20 are maintained for the remainder of the year.

So now with that said, back to Gio.


Giordano Albertazzi
CEO & Director

Well, thank you very much, Dave. And we go to Slide 10 to share some thoughts on 2026. So the data center market continues to show remarkable strength, driven by accelerating AI adoption globally. Our order pipeline and market indicators give us confidence in this trajectory, though EMEA remains softer, and we expect it to rebound in the second half of 2026.

Based on our substantial backlog and clear visibility of pipeline, we anticipate continued significant organic sales growth in 2026. To anticipate and stay ahead of our customers' evolving needs and time lines, we expect to accelerate our investments in supply chain and services capabilities and capacity. Tariffs remain dynamic, but we have a clear action plan and strong execution. Our mitigation strategies are progressing well and under current conditions, we expect to materially offset their impact as we exit Q1.

On profitability, multiple drivers support continued margin expansion, strong operating leverage, certainly at these growth levels, ongoing productivity initiatives and effective price cost management. We remain fully committed to our November 2024 Investor Day margin targets. Our robust free cash flow provides significant strategic flexibility. And let me elaborate on this a little bit more on Page 11.

So let's go to Slide 11. And we are accelerating our investments for growth along 3 dimensions: capacity. We are investing globally with a significant focus on Americas across multiple technologies. Some examples. Our infrastructure solutions capabilities are growing with prefabricated solutions for both gray and white space and entire data center.

Vertiv infrastructure solutions enable faster deployment, shorter time to revenue and alleviate skilled labor constraints on site. SmartRun, our innovative prefabricated white space system shared with you in July, exemplifies this acceleration capability. The Great Lakes acquisition strengthens our IT systems offering and deepens our white space presence. We are scaling these capabilities as we have done with previous acquisitions, a playbook that we know quite well.

In general, our capacity expansion strategy keeps us 6, 12 months ahead of demand curves, maintaining technology leadership while driving operational efficiency. The other axis, of course, is technology, and our engineering and R&D spending will grow 20% plus in 2026 with flexibility to accelerate further. Through aggressive R&D investments, we are committed to staying multiple GPU generations ahead.

We are accelerating our funding for the system layer, connecting all critical infrastructure elements, and this is a crucial advantage as data centers are becoming increasingly complex. When it comes to M&A, our strong balance sheet enables us both opportunistic bolt-ons and larger strategic acquisitions. All according and in line with our value creation framework. We maintain a vibrant pipeline across technologies, regions, and deal sizes. As the industry accelerates, we need to stay ahead, whether through smaller technology acquisitions or larger scale opportunities.

This strategy strengthens our complete system solution offering, expands our TAM and enhances our global reach. So we will continue investing to extend our technology leadership and deepen our capabilities to serve customers in ways no one else can. So let's now go to Slide 12, our last slide. And we're certainly pleased with our performance this quarter. Confidence with what we see leads us to raise our full year guidance.

Our 2025 execution demonstrates the strength of our strategy, and it positions us well for 2026. Our strategic acquisitions and increased investment in CapEx and engineering R&D reflect our sense of urgency in capturing opportunities ahead. While the global landscape presents complexities from tariffs to geopolitical shifts, our approach remains unwavering, develop robust mitigating strategies, assign clear accountability and execute with precision. We are pleased with our progress, but there is more work to do. And as you know, we're never satisfied.

Looking ahead, our 800-volt DC portfolio planned for release in the second half of 2026 aligns directly with NVIDIA's 2027 rollout of their Rubin Ultra platforms. We are collaborating closely with NVIDIA to advance these platform designs. This is about staying ahead of where the industry is going, not just where it is today. What sets Vertiv apart is our system-level expertise across AC and DC power, combined with our thermal management and service capabilities, delivering solutions that address the complete power and cooling infrastructure. Our team understands that leadership means constantly raising the bar for tomorrow, and that's exactly what we will continue to do.

So with that, I'll turn it over to Brika for questions.