Vertiv Holdings Co (VRT) Baird 55th Annual Global Industrial Conference November 11, 2025 3:20 PM EST

Company Participants

Giordano Albertazzi - CEO & Director

Conference Call Participants

Michael Halloran - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division

Presentation

Michael Halloran
Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division

Awesome. Hi, everybody. Mike Halloran here, and we are pleased to welcome Vertiv with us. Gio Albertazzi, CEO, is going to give some really brief prepared remarks, and then we're going to dive into Q&A.

As you all know, I don't cover the company. I've got a lot of good questions. However, if there's anything you want to talk about, raise your hand. I'll call on you. Most people won't do that anymore. So send an e-mail to the card in front of you, and I will make sure to incorporate the questions into the conversation to make sure we cover what everybody wants to cover today.

With that, Gio, the floor is yours for a couple of minutes.

Giordano Albertazzi
CEO & Director

Well, thank you very much. Good day, everyone. I'm very glad to being here. Most of you, I'm sure, know Vertiv, a global leader in digital critical infrastructure. 80% of what we do is data center, certainly a sector that is increasingly of interest, very strong market growth, growth that we believe will be strong and long-term, and a very strong position in this market with a truly complete portfolio that stretches from the entire powertrain, thermal chain, white space, a very strong service organization that is one of our superpowers and a lot of prefabrication.

You might have seen, if I haven't, I recommend you do, we launched a fully prefabricated data center core Vertiv OneCore, basically reference design around GB300 and soon to come Rubin and future NVIDIA chip designs. That is, let's say, the tip of the spear, the representation of all Vertiv capabilities, the entire data center infrastructure. This capability and the breadth of our range make us a pretty vigilant [ lockster ] for the -- on the one side, NVIDIA and the other is the large colo, the hyperscalers to really define what the long-term strategy deployment is.

And that, of course, gives us not only a sit at the design table, but certainly a preferential understanding of where the industry is going. And that translates into quite some strong performance. As you have probably seen from our earnings call a couple of weeks back in terms of actual growth and expectation for the rest of the year. So very proud of what we're doing and certainly very happy about the visibility that comes from the strength in an increasingly visible industry.

With that, let's go into [indiscernible].

