Western Digital Corporation (WDC) Q2 2026 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 4:30 PM EST

Company Participants

Ambrish Srivastava - Vice President of Investor Relations
Tiang Yew Tan - CEO & Director
Kris Sennesael - Executive VP & CFO

Conference Call Participants

Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Erik Woodring - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Christopher Muse - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division
Aisling Grueninger - BofA Securities, Research Division
Michael Cadiz - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Hannah Liu - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Karl Ackerman - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Thomas O'Malley - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Vijay Rakesh - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division
Steven Fox - Fox Advisors LLC
Ananda Baruah - Loop Capital Markets LLC, Research Division
Hadi Orabi - TD Cowen, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good afternoon, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Western Digital's Second Quarter Fiscal 2026 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded.

Now I will turn the call over to Mr. Ambrish Srivastava, Vice President, Investor Relations. You may begin.

Ambrish Srivastava
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me today are Irving Tan, Western Digital's Chief Executive Officer; and Kris Sennesael, Western Digital's Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, please note that today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements based on management's current assumptions and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include expectations for our product portfolio, our business plans and performance, ongoing market trends and our future financial results. We assume no obligation to update these statements. Please refer to our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.

In our prepared remarks, our comments will be related to non-GAAP results on a continuing operations basis, unless stated otherwise. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release and other materials that are being posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.wdc.com.

Lastly, I want to note that when we refer to we, us, are or similar terms, we are referring only to Western Digital as a company and not speaking on behalf of the industry.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Irving for introductory remarks. Irving?

Tiang Yew Tan
CEO & Director

Thanks, Ambrish, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. The growth and impact of AI continues to accelerate across numerous industries. As generative AI models become the norm and agentic AI scales to drive business productivity, it is clear that AI is becoming a true strategic enabler of business transformation. AI inference has also begun to take hold in many ways becoming the true AI workload with deployment to chat bots and virtual assistants and customer relationship management tools. Further innovations in physical AI are also accelerating quickly, generating increasingly larger multimodal models propelled by advancements in autonomous vehicles and robotics.

In all cases, it is data that is needed to fuel the entire AI process from training to inference to enable stronger models and sharper inference results. And as more data is generated and the value of data increases, the demand to store it is expanding at a rapid rate.

As AI capabilities expand, cloud continues to grow as well, and both are driving the surge in demand for higher-density storage solutions. In this new era where AI and cloud dominate, Western Digital has taken a customer-focused approach to managing the strong demand by working closely with our hyperscale customers, ensuring that we deliver reliable, high-capacity drives at scale to give them the best performance and total cost of ownership.

We are doing this by continuing to focus on increasing our drives areal density and accelerating our HAMR and ePMR road maps as well as upshifting our customers to accelerate adoption of higher capacity drives and UltraSMR technology. This last quarter, we shipped over 3.5 million units of our latest generation ePMR products, offering up to 26 terabyte CMR and 32 terabyte by UltraSMR capacities, representing strong confidence and adoption by our customers.

We have also started qualification of our HAMR and next-generation ePMR products, each with a different hyperscale customer. These drives will offer our customers the higher capacity and improve total cost of ownership that they are looking for. In addition, we continue to accelerate our HAMR innovation. To support this, we recently acquired intellectual property assets and talent that will help us in the development of our internal laser capabilities. Also this past quarter, in partnership with software ecosystem partners, we announced our UltraSMR-enabled JBOD platforms, expanding UltraSMR adoption to a broader customer set. These platforms deliver significantly higher storage density compared to conventional drives. giving customers hyperscale-like performance and make mass scale data analysis more sustainable and efficient.

We are truly seeing our approach resonate with our customers, and this is reflected in longer-term agreements and better visibility into their requirements. We have firm purchase orders with our top seven customers through calendar year 2026. We also have in place robust commercial agreements with three of our top five customers, two through calendar year 2027 and one through calendar year 2028. These agreements indicate a strong trust that we have built with our customers and confidence in our ability to meet their exabyte needs. We are hosting an Innovation Day on February 3rd in New York next week, where we will share updated road maps for our HAMR and ePMR products as well as further details on core innovations that we are developing to improve our drives performance, energy efficiency and throughput. We will also provide an update on our financial model.

In keeping with our strategy to incubate new growth vectors based on our intellectual property and core capabilities, last month, we announced a strategic investment in Qolab, which combines our expertise in material science and precision manufacturing with Qolab's breakthrough approach to quantum hardware design. Working with Qolab, we aim to advance next-generation nanofabrication processes that improve qubit performance, reliability and scalability. Looking ahead, we see our positive momentum continuing and we will remain focused on supporting our customers' exabyte storage requirements while completing qualifications and launching our next-generation HAMR and ePMR drives.

I will now hand it over to Kris to share our Q2 results and outlook for Q3.

Kris Sennesael
Executive VP & CFO

Thank you, Irving, and good afternoon, everyone. Western Digital delivered another quarter of strong financial performance, reflecting disciplined execution across our organization and our ability to meet the customers' growing demand in the AI-driven data economy.

During the second quarter of fiscal 2026, revenue was $3 billion, up 25% year-over-year, driven by strong demand for our nearline drives. Earnings per share was $2.13. Both revenue and EPS were above the high end of the guidance range. We delivered 215 exabytes to our customers, up 22% year-over-year. This includes over 3.5 million drives or 103 exabytes of our latest generation ePMR with capacity points up to 32 terabytes. Cloud represented 89% of total revenue at $2.7 billion, up 28% year-over-year, driven by strong demand for our higher capacity nearline product portfolio. Client represented 6% of total revenue at $176 million, up 26% year-over-year. Consumer represented 5% of revenue at $168 million, down 3% year-over-year.

Gross margin for the fiscal second quarter was 46.1%. Gross margin improved 770 basis points year-over-year and 220 basis points sequentially. The improved gross margin performance reflects continued mix shift towards higher capacity drives and tight cost control in our manufacturing sites and throughout the supply chain.

Operating expenses were $372 million. As a percentage of revenue, operating expenses declined 120 basis points sequentially, primarily due to operating leverage in the model. Operating income was slightly above $1 billion, translating into an operating margin of 33.8%. Interest and other expenses were $45 million, and our effective tax rate in the fiscal second quarter was 15.1%. Taking into account the diluted share count of 378 million shares, EPS was $2.13, an increase of 78% year-over-year.

Turning to the balance sheet. At the end of our fiscal second quarter, cash and cash equivalents were $2 billion and total liquidity was $3.2 billion, including the undrawn revolver capacity. Debt outstanding was $4.7 billion, translating into a net debt position of $2.7 billion and a net leverage EBITDA ratio of well below 1 turn. Operating cash flow for the fiscal second quarter was $745 million, and capital expenditures were $92 million, resulting in strong free cash flow generation of $653 million for the quarter, which reflected a free cash flow margin of 21.6%.

During the quarter, we made $48 million of dividend payments and increased our share repurchases to $615 million, repurchasing 3.8 million shares of common stock. Since the launch of our capital return program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025, we have returned $1.4 billion to our shareholders by way of share repurchases and dividend payments. Also, today, we announced that our Board has approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.125 per share of the company's common stock, payable on March 18, 2026, to shareholders of record as of March 5, 2026.

I will now turn to the outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2026. We anticipate revenue to be $3.2 billion, plus/minus $100 million. At midpoint, this reflects a growth of approximately 40% year-over-year. Gross margin is expected to be between 47% and 48%. We expect operating expenses in the range of $380 million to $390 million. Interest and other expenses are anticipated to be approximately $50 million. The tax rate is expected to be approximately 16%. As a result, we expect diluted earnings per share to be $2.30, plus/minus $0.15 based on a non-GAAP diluted share count of approximately 385 million shares.

To wrap up, Western Digital achieved another strong quarter with performance ahead of expectations. Our guidance for the next quarter underscore continued favorable trends in our business alongside our disciplined approach to free cash flow, capital returns and long-term value creation for shareholders.

With that, let's now begin the Q&A. Ambrish?

Ambrish Srivastava
Vice President of Investor Relations

Thank you, Kris. Operator, you can now open the line to questions, please. To ensure that we hear from as many analysts as possible, please ask one question at a time. After we respond we will give you an opportunity to ask one follow-up question. Operator?

