Waste Management, Inc. (WM) Q4 2025 Earnings Call January 29, 2026 10:00 AM EST

Company Participants

Edward Egl - Director of Investor Relations
James Fish - CEO & Director
John Morris - President & COO
David Reed - CFO & Executive VP
Tara Hemmer - Senior VP & Chief Sustainability Officer

Conference Call Participants

Sabahat Khan - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Bryan Burgmeier - Citigroup Inc., Research Division
Trevor Romeo
Patrick Brown - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Toni Kaplan - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Faiza Alwy - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Adam Bubes - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division
Noah Kaye - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
James Schumm - TD Cowen, Research Division
Jerry Revich - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Konark Gupta - Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets, Research Division
Seth Weber - BNP Paribas, Research Division
Shlomo Rosenbaum - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Tobey Sommer - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
William Grippin - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division
Tami Zakaria - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Alexander Augimeri - CIBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Stephanie Benjamin Moore - Jefferies LLC, Research Division

Presentation

Operator

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the WM Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note that today's conference is being recorded. I will now hand the conference over to your speaker host, Ed Egl, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Edward Egl
Director of Investor Relations

Thank you, Olivia. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter and full year 2025 earnings conference call. With me this morning are Jim Fish, Chief Executive Officer; John Morris, President and Chief Operating Officer; and David Reed, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. You'll hear prepared comments from each of them today. Jim will cover high-level financials and provide a strategic update. John will cover our operating overview, and David will cover the details of the financials.

Before we get started, please note that we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the earnings press release and is available on our website at www.wm.com. The Form 8-K, the press release and the schedules in the press release include important information. During the call, you will hear forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations, projections or opinions about future periods. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today's press release and in our filings with the SEC, including the most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs.

John will discuss our results in the area of volume, which unless stated otherwise, are more specifically references to internal revenue growth or IRG from volume. During the call, Jim, John and David will discuss operating EBITDA, which is income from operations before depreciation, depletion and amortization. References to the Legacy Business are total WM results, excluding the Healthcare Solutions segment. Any comparisons, unless otherwise stated, will be with the prior year period. Net income, EPS, income from operations and margin, operating EBITDA and margin, operating expense and margin and SG&A expense and margin have been adjusted to enhance comparability by excluding certain items that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or results of operations.

These adjusted measures, in addition to free cash flow, are non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the earnings press release and tables, which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures. This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time today. To hear a replay of the call, access the WM website at www.investors.wm.com. Time-sensitive information provided during today's call, which is occurring on January 29, 2026, may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay. Any redistribution, retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of WM is prohibited.

Now I'll turn the call over to WM's CEO, Jim Fish.

James Fish
CEO & Director

Okay. Thanks, Ed, and thank you all for joining us. We're pleased to report another year of outstanding results in 2025, including a record performance in operating expenses as a percent of revenue. This performance, combined with our disciplined approach to pricing, drove full year operating EBITDA margin 150 basis points higher in the Legacy Business. Strong operational performance translated to double-digit growth in cash flow from operations and nearly 27% growth in free cash flow. Our results highlight the strength and momentum we built in our business model through operational excellence, scaling sustainability businesses and integration of Healthcare Solutions.

You've heard me talk about the strength of our collection and disposal business with our differentiated assets and the best people in the industry. All of these were on display in 2025 as we drove our best ever operating leverage in our collection and disposal business, reflecting the intentional investments we've made in our people, technology and fleet. Better frontline retention and a decreased average age of our trucks delivered improvements in labor and maintenance costs. Meanwhile, we continue to drive organic revenue growth from both price and volume. By using data and analytics, we're offering pricing that reflects the premium value of our service, our leading commitment to environmental sustainability and the strength of our asset network.

It's our unmatched network, particularly our transfer and disposal assets that drove volume growth in 2025, more than offsetting the residential volume declines as we shed some low-margin business. In our Healthcare Solutions business, 2025 was a year of teamwork, focus and execution to build momentum to our integration. Our service delivery metrics and customer service scores have improved to levels above our Legacy Business. Customer call volume has been trending down, and the standardization and enhancement of customer-facing processes and invoices are all leading to rising customer satisfaction.

Just last week, we received an acknowledgment from one of our largest Healthcare Solutions customers for the improvements we've made on invoicing, which is a great indicator of the significant progress we've made in the last year in our systems and back-office processes. At the same time, we continue to significantly reduce SG&A and operating costs, streamline our operations and greatly improve asset efficiencies. While there's still work to do, the progress we've made to date puts us in a good position to grow the earnings and cash flow from this business with a lean and efficient cost structure, a healthy pricing environment and new opportunities for volume growth through both cross-selling and market share expansion.

On the sustainability front, we drove notable strategic expansion in our sustainability businesses. We commissioned 7 new renewable natural gas facilities, expanding our renewable energy network and further positioning WM as a leader in environmental sustainability. We completed automation upgrades at 5 recycling facilities and added facilities in 4 new markets, which are enhancing the performance of our recycling network and creating new opportunities with customers. The value of our recycling investments is clear, particularly when you consider our recycling segment delivered over 22% operating EBITDA growth despite nearly 20% lower commodity prices in 2025.

This combination of operational excellence and strategic investment across our business has produced record margin performance and accelerated cash generation. As we enter 2026, we're well positioned to convert more of our earnings into long-term shareholder value. Turning to our outlook. We expect continued strong growth in the year ahead. Our guidance is for operating EBITDA growth of 6.2% at the midpoint or 7.4% when you normalize for wildfire cleanup volumes in 2025. Free cash flow is expected to grow nearly 30% at the midpoint, reflecting structural earnings strength and the benefit of our investments. As announced in December, our Board approved a 14.5% increase in the planned quarterly dividend rate in 2026, our 23rd consecutive year of dividend growth.

We also authorized a new $3 billion share repurchase program. We plan to return about $3.5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases in 2026, representing more than 90% of free cash flow we expect to generate. We will continue to balance these returns with disciplined reinvestment, tuck-in M&A and a solid investment-grade credit profile. Looking ahead, our priorities are clear: first, growing the core business by leveraging our focus on customer lifetime value, operational excellence and network advantages; second, capturing and maximizing returns from our investments in our recycling and renewable energy businesses; and third, driving accretive growth in Healthcare Solutions as we take the business from integration to scalable growth.

Finally, executing our disciplined capital allocation plan to deliver compelling long-term shareholder value. Our results reflect the hard work of our entire team who serve our customers with pride every day. Their commitment fuels our performance and sets the foundation for the opportunities ahead. In 2026, we will build this momentum strengthening the core, scaling our growth platforms and creating meaningful value for all our stakeholders. I'm incredibly proud of what we've accomplished and excited for what's ahead.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to John to provide more detail on our operational performance.

John Morris
President & COO

Thanks, Jim, and good morning. WM delivered another fantastic quarter to close 2025, driven by disciplined pricing and continued cost efficiencies across the business. In the fourth quarter, operating EBITDA in our collection and disposal business grew more than 8% and operating EBITDA margin expanded by 160 basis points, supported by strong execution and the ongoing benefits of automation and technology across our operations. The strength in Q4 was driven by operating expenses as a percentage of revenue improving 180 basis points to 58.5%, marking our third consecutive quarter below 60%.

And for the full year, our cost management is just as impressive. We finished 2025 at 59.5%, which is the first time in company history that operating expenses have come in below 60% for a year with each quarter of 2025 improving sequentially. As I said on Investor Day, we are fundamentally changing our cost structure through the investments we're making in our people, technology and processes. 2025 was a year we proved the change is real and durable, and we're well positioned to continue capturing these benefits for years to come. The improvement in operating cost was led by substantial improvement in repair and maintenance costs on both a dollar basis and as a percentage of revenue, driven by operational and fleet strategies that are yielding tangible benefits.

Accelerated investments in new trucks over the last 3 years has improved our average fleet age, significantly reducing unplanned repairs and the need for third-party maintenance support. And at the same time, our disciplined focus on fleet optimization and a more streamlined maintenance model increased technician productivity and reduced reliance on rental units and external services. These structural improvements were complemented by enhanced route automation and resource planning tools that lessen wear on the fleet and improve overall asset utilization. Taken together, these initiatives reflect our strategic commitment to operational excellence and are driving sustained cost efficiencies that strengthen our performance.

Our repair and maintenance costs were not the only cost category reflecting the strength of our operating model as we saw a similar story in labor. In Q4, labor costs improved as we continue to see benefits from our people-first culture across our frontline teams. Driver turnover reached its lowest level of the year at 15.7%, demonstrating our ability to sustain our meaningful improvements in frontline retention. We've implemented a people-centric approach to onboarding, training and accountability, which is improving retention, safety and operating efficiency while also reducing overtime hours and training needs.

We also benefited from our connected truck platform, which gives leaders real-time visibility into sequencing, downtime and efficiency to help reduce labor dependency while improving service reliability. And it's also worth noting that our connected truck benefits are not limited to cost advantages as the technology enables rightsizing service levels and other revenue opportunities. These people, process and technology-driven improvements extend beyond our Legacy Business. And now that we've successfully integrated the Healthcare Solutions business into our existing field operations management structure, we expect to extend these improvements we've already seen in on-time service delivery, driver turnover, asset rationalization and network optimization.

In both the Legacy Business and the Healthcare Solutions business, we are structurally lowering our labor cost base, strengthening day-to-day execution, enhancing service reliability and delivering continued opportunities for long-term operating improvements. Turning to the top line. We delivered another quarter of strong balanced growth. Pricing continues to be a strength for us with core price of 6.2% in the fourth quarter, not just because of disciplined execution, but because of our strong customer focus and the consistent value we provide to our customers. Our asset positioning at scale, service reliability and the investments we've made in technology and automation differentiate our service offering, which all support our pricing.

And on the volume front, we've seen notable growth in 2025 in special waste, renewable energy and recycling. In residential collection, intentional shedding moderated in the fourth quarter, and we continue to drive operating EBITDA and margin growth. We anticipate steady residential volume improvement as we move through 2026.

In closing, I'll close by thanking the entire WM team for their commitment and execution throughout 2025. We're entering 2026 with strong momentum, an optimized operating model and clear opportunities to continue delivering value to our customers and shareholders.

And now I'll turn the call over to David to discuss our 2025 financial results and 2026 financial outlook in further detail.

David Reed
CFO & Executive VP

Thanks, John, and good morning. Our 2025 performance demonstrates the meaningful progress we're making toward our long-term strategic goals. Operating EBITDA margin expanded 40 basis points to 30.1% for the full year, which is a result that overcame a 140 basis point margin headwind from the combined impact of the acquisition of the Healthcare Solutions business and the expiration of alternative fuel tax credits. This result significantly exceeded the margin outlook we provided at the beginning of 2025 as we outperformed our own high expectations for cost optimization in our Legacy Business and synergy capture in the Healthcare Solutions business during each quarter of the year.

Normalized for these known headwinds I just mentioned, our Legacy Business delivered 180 basis points of margin expansion for the year. This was driven by 120 basis points of growth in the collection and disposal business from the benefits of price, cost optimization and improved business mix, particularly growth in landfill volumes and the shedding of low-margin residential business. Margin growth was also bolstered by a combined 60 basis points from lower commodity pricing in the recycling brokerage business, recycling automation benefits, the growth of our high-margin renewable natural gas business and the lower risk management cost. Cost optimization remained a central theme in 2025.

SG&A expense for the Legacy Business was 9.2% of revenue for the full year, a 10 basis point improvement compared to 2024 as we continue to rationalize discretionary spending. Within Healthcare Solutions, we are making consistent progress in reducing SG&A expenses as we integrate and optimize the business. Fourth quarter 2025 Healthcare Solutions SG&A of 20.8% of revenue is a notable improvement of 350 basis points from the prior year period and a significant step toward our long-term ambition to get the SG&A of this business in line with the rest of the company. At 10.4% for the full year, it is clear that we are on track to get total company SG&A as a percentage of revenue below 10% in short order.

Our strong execution translated into robust cash flow generation in 2025. Cash flow from operations grew more than 12% to $6.04 billion, and free cash flow reached $2.94 billion, an increase of nearly 27%. These results showcase our success in driving margin expansion and disciplined approach to capital investment. For the year, we spent just under $2.6 billion on capital to support the business and $633 million on sustainability growth investments. In 2025, we allocated $1.3 billion to dividends and paid down $1 billion in debt, reaching a leverage ratio of 3.1x. We expect to reach a leverage ratio within our targeted range of between 2.5 and 3x during 2026. We also invested more than $400 million in tuck-in acquisitions to expand our traditional solid waste and recycling footprint.

Moving to the outlook. We expect operating EBITDA to be between $8.15 billion and $8.25 billion in 2026. This projection reflects an update to the classification of accretion expense, a change we are making to enhance the comparability with our industry peers and to better reflect operating performance. As a result, our 2026 operating EBITDA guidance excludes projected accretion expense of approximately $150 million. Our plan calls for a typical quarterly cadence of operating EBITDA contributions across the year. Additionally, we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 24% and a share count at the end of the year of about 402 million shares.

We anticipate capital expenditures for 2026 to be between $2.65 billion and $2.75 billion, which is inclusive of about $200 million directed towards high-return sustainability projects. Sustainability growth capital includes spending of about $85 million on 2 recently approved renewable natural gas facilities and 1 new recycling growth project, each expected to be completed and to begin contributing operating EBITDA by 2028. These projects are attractive opportunities to extend our network while bolstering WM's industry-leading return on invested capital. In 2026, we expect free cash flow growth of nearly 30% to $3.8 billion at the midpoint of the outlook, which drives our projected operating EBITDA to free cash flow conversion above 46%.

Our guidance includes an anticipated benefit from investment tax credits of about $110 million, which is about a $75 million headwind from the prior year. In closing, 2025 underscored the strength of our business model, the resilience of our operations and the discipline with which our teams execute every day. We are proud of our progress toward our long-term strategic goals, driving margin expansion, strong cash flow generation and continued optimization across the enterprise.

I want to thank our dedicated team members whose commitment makes these results possible. As we look ahead to 2026, we are confident in our ability to sustain this momentum to continue delivering operational excellence and to generate long-term value for our shareholders.

With that, Olivia, let's open up the lines for questions.

